## Gross Floor Area- ADVISORY NOTE

The principles and illustrations used in this Gross Floor Area (GFA)
handbook is not exhaustive in covering all building designs. URA
reserves the right to interpret GFA matters based on the specific design
of a development proposal, depending on the merits of the proposal.




## Gross Floor Area- INTRODUCTION TO GFA Handbook

For development control purpose, Singapore uses a Gross Floor Area (GFA)
system to work out the bulk and intensity of a development. The Gross
Plot Ratio (GPR) for a specific development site is defined as the ratio
of the GFA of a building to its site or plot area^1^. The allowable GPR
of a development is guided by the GPR specified in the Master Plan (MP).

This GFA handbook explains which area or space of a development is
included or excluded from GFA for development control purpose. As a
general principle, all covered floor area of a development and all
uncovered area used for commercial purposes are included as GFA, unless
otherwise exempted. This is regardless of whether the spaces are
accessible or usable.

GFA is the total area of covered floor space measured between the centre
line of party walls, including the thickness of external walls but
excluding voids.

The area of a site/plot measured between the survey boundary lines. If
there are area(s) of the land required to be set aside for Drainage
Reserve or Street/Road Reserve to be vested to the State, these areas
may be included in the site area for GPR calculation. Once these areas
are vested to the State, they cannot be used for GPR calculation
subsequently.

## Gross Floor Area- BONUS GROSS FLOOR AREA ABOVE MP ALLOWABLE INTENSITY

Bonus GFA is allowed over and above the MP GPR subject to a maximum of
10% of the MP GPR. When the site is redeveloped in future, the
additional GFA already used under the GFA incentive schemes shall not be
carried over. In other words, the GPR for the site shall revert to the
GPR specified in the prevailing MP.

Although a site may make use of multiple GFA incentive schemes, the
total GFA shall not exceed the overall cap of 10% above the MP GPR.
Developments are eligible for the following bonus GFA incentive schemes
if they comply with the relevant guidelines:

  ## Gross Floor Area- Bonus GFA Incentive Schemes

  [## Gross Floor Area- Residential Developments(Flats and Condominiums)](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Residential/Flats-Condominiums/Bonus-GFA)   Balcony Incentive Scheme
                                                                                                                                                                          Conserved Bungalow Scheme
                                                                                                                                                                          Indoor Recreation Spaces Scheme
  [## Gross Floor Area- Non-Residential Development(Commercial)](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Commercial/GFA-Incentive-Schemes)    Community and Sports Facilities Scheme
                                                                                                                                                                          Rooftop Outdoor Refreshment Areas on Landscaped Roofs
  [## Gross Floor Area- Non-Residential Development(Hotel)](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/GFA-Incentive-Schemes)              Balcony Incentive Scheme
                                                                                                                                                                          Rooftop Outdoor Refreshment Areas on Landscaped Roofs

## Gross Floor Area- GFA RELATED MATTERS

## Gross Floor Area- GFA Apportionment

If the approved development comprises more than one use, the following
rules shall apply in the calculation of common areas. Such a mixed
development may also arise due to the land use zone, for example the
Commercial & Residential zone.

i.  ## Gross Floor Area- Attributable space: Where a common area is exclusively used for
    a specific purpose, it will be apportioned to the specific use. See


ii. ## Gross Floor Area- Non-attributable space: Where the common area is used for two or
    more purposes, it will be apportioned based on the weighted average,
    pegged to the prescribed use quantum mix in the Master Plan zoning
    of the development. See example below.

## Gross Floor Area- The prescribed use quantum mix in the Master Plan zoning is detailed below:

The new apportionment rules will be applied on a per floor basis. If a
floor is occupied by a single use (e.g. Commercial), any vertical
circulation GFA areas like staircases on that floor will be apportioned
to Commercial use, though they may also be used by other users (e.g.
Residential) above for escape purposes. However, if the floor is
occupied by two or more uses^1^ for which the staircase GFA on that
floor cannot be exclusively attributed, they will be regarded as
non-attributable space and apportioned based on weighted average, pegged
to the prescribed use quantum in the Master Plan zoning.

The illustrations above are not exhaustive in covering all possible
building or layout designs. In evaluating the development applications,
URA may, if the circumstances of a case or the planning considerations
relevant to a case so warrant, depart from these rules. Persons
intending to carry out a development are advised to take this into
consideration and check with URA through enquiries or development
applications to confirm the application of the rules on their proposals.

These should comprise actual uses and not common areas. For example, on
full Commercial floors with lift lobbies that serve Hotel uses, vertical
circulation areas like staircases on that floor will be apportioned to
Commercial use. However, on mixed floors with both Hotel and Shop uses,
vertical circulation areas will be apportioned based on weighted
average.

GFA Apportionment for Sites with Specific Use Quantum Mix in Tender/
Lease Conditions

For sites where the tender or lease conditions state that the land is to
be developed for a certain use quantum mix, non-attributable common
areas will be apportioned based on the specific use quantum mix stated
in the tender or lease conditions, rather than the Master Plan zoning.
For example, if the lease conditions for a site zoned Commercial require
that the site is to be developed for a use quantum mix of 65% Commercial
and 35% Civic & Community Institution, the non-attributable spaces will
be apportioned based on 65% Commercial and 35% Civic & Community
Institution, rather than 100% Commercial.

For White sites where the tender or lease conditions stipulate a minimum
quantum control on a particular use (e.g. minimum 30% Service
Apartment), this will be taken into account when apportioning the
non-attributable common areas with the balance 70% distributed to the
other uses in the development on a simple average basis. For example, if
the White site has a requirement of minimum 30% Service Apartment use
and the development also has Commercial and Hotel uses, the
apportionment of the non-attributable common areas will be based on 30%
Service Apartment, 35% Commercial and 35% Hotel.

In evaluating the development applications, URA may, if the
circumstances of a case or the planning considerations relevant to a
case so warrant, depart from these rules. Persons intending to carry out
a development are advised to take this into consideration and check with
URA through enquiries or development applications to confirm the
application of the rules on their proposals.

## Gross Floor Area- Re-computation of GFA for Existing Developments

Prior to 1 Sep 1989, the intensity of residential developments was
determined using the population density (i.e. persons per hectare)
method while that for commercial developments was based on the nett
floor area method (i.e. excluding neutral areas). With effect from 1 Sep
1989, the different methods of determining development intensity for
different types of development were standardised by the current Gross
Floor Area (GFA) method. The GFA was re-defined by counting all covered
floor space within a development (unless specifically exempted) and
including open areas used for commercial purposes.\
\
To determine the intensity of such developments approved before 1 Sep
1989, there is a need to convert the approved GFA of the developments to
the standardised current GFA definition. For such developments, the
approved building would need to be recomputed based on the prevailing
GFA definition.

## Gross Floor Area- Automated Teller Machine and Vending Machine Kiosks

Kiosk-type structures containing Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) and
vending machines are included as GFA. Standalone ATMs and vending
machine are equipment and they are excluded from GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Balconies

Balconies are included as GFA.

Under the Balcony Incentive Scheme (BIS), balconies may be included as
bonus GFA if they adhere to the BIS guidelines and submission
requirements stated in the Development Control Handbooks. Refer to the
links below for more information on the specific guidelines.

  ## Gross Floor Area- Residential Handbook
  [Balcony Incentive Scheme (Flats and Condominium)](https://cms.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Residential/Flats-Condominiums/Bonus-GFA)

  ## Gross Floor Area- Non-Residential Handbook
  [Balcony Incentive Scheme (Hotel)](https://cms.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/GFA-Incentive-Schemes)

## Gross Floor Area- Basement Diaphragm Walls

Basement diaphragm walls located along the periphery of the basement
structure are excluded from GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Bay Windows

Bay windows refer to raised windows not exceeding one structural bay
width and cantilevered at least 0.5m high from the floor. Bay windows,
except those approved before 1^st^ January 2009, are included as GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Bicycle Parking Spaces

Bicycle parking spaces provided in accordance with LTA's prevailing
parking provision standards^1^ are excluded from GFA. Bicycle parking
spaces provided over and above LTA's minimum requirements may be
excluded from GFA if assessed by LTA and URA to be reasonable, given the
context of the development.

Such bicycle parking spaces shall be located at a convenient location
for cyclists, taking into consideration the alignment of adjacent
cycling paths/ shared paths, public transportation nodes and amenities.

^1^ Effective date: 8 May 2019. Refer to Circular No.:
URA/PB/2018/03-DCG (Annex A)

## Gross Floor Area- End of Trip Facilities

Provision of End-of-Trip facilities listed in the table below may be
excluded from GFA.

URA shall consider whether the size of the facility is appropriate,
taking reference from LTA's guidelines on such facilities^1^. The
End-of-Trip facilities shall be located near the bicycle parking spaces
for the convenience of cyclists.

^1^ Refer to the Code of Practice (COP) on Street Work Proposals
relating to development works and COP on vehicle parking provision in
development proposals for guidelines on the End-of-Trip facilities.

^2^ This guideline only applies to Backpackers' Hostel. End-of-Trip
facilities provided within Student Hostels, which are akin to
Residential use will not be excluded from GFA.

^3^ The guideline also applies to Foreign Workers' Dormitories located
on Industrial sites.

## Gross Floor Area- Cable Chambers Integrated with the Main Building

Cable chambers integrated within the main building are excluded from GFA
if it does not exceed 2.5m in height^1^.



^1^ The structural beams shall also be included in the height
computation.

## Gross Floor Area- Standalone Cable Chambers

Standalone cable chambers that fulfil either criteria below are excluded
from GFA:

-   The height^1^ of the cable chamber, measured from the floor to the
    underside of the upper floor shall not exceed 2.0m; or

-   The combined height^1^ (a + b) shall not exceed 4.5m for Residential
    developments, 5.0m for Commercial developments or 6.0m for
    Industrial or Warehouse developments.






^1^ The structural beams shall also be included in the height
computation.

## Gross Floor Area- Car Parks, Motorcycle Parks and Related Facilities

Vehicle parking related areas on car park floors are excluded from GFA.
This includes car parking lots, driveways, residual areas^1^ and
corridors^2^ leading to a car park lift lobby.

Residual areas incapable of accommodating an additional car park lot.

^2^ Can only be enclosed on up to 3 sides.

## Gross Floor Area- Car Parking Lots

Car parking lots are excluded from GFA except under the following
circumstances:

-   Private car parking lots that form part of a residential
    strata-titled unit. Such lots are exclusively accessible by a
    residential strata-titled unit and not sited on a common car park
    floor, as illustrated below.



> For strata landed residential developments, private car park lots may
> be excluded from GFA provided not more than 2 private car park lots
> are proposed per residential unit. The car parking lots shall be
> contiguous to the residential units.

-   Car parking lots provided above the upper bound^1^ for:

    -   Commercial, Hotel and Mixed-use developments;

    -   Residential developments within Central Area; and

    -   Business Parks within 400m of MRT or LRT stations.

-   All private car and lorry parking lots in strata-titled commercial
    and industrial developments. Such lots shall be physically
    contiguous to the strata unit.

With effect from 1 February 2019, under the Range-based Parking
Provision Standards (RPPS), developments can provide any level of
parking provision within the specified range, defined by a lower bound
and an upper bound, without the need for additional approval from LTA.

## Gross Floor Area- Car Porch and Garages in Landed Housing

Car parking space within a car porch or garage of landed housing is
excluded from GFA.


## Gross Floor Area- Driveways

Driveways are part of the vehicular circulation area. These are excluded
from GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Lift Lobbies within Car Park Floors

Lift lobbies in car park floors are included as GFA. The GFA is limited
to an area equivalent to the size of the lift shaft (including the
thickness of the shaft) or to the actual size of the lift lobby,
whichever is smaller.

## Gross Floor Area- Mechanised Car Parking System

Car parking lots that form part of a mechanised car parking system
adjacent to residential units are excluded from GFA if they meet the
following requirements:

-   There are no fixed concrete or metal floor slabs or platforms where
    the cars are parked;

-   The car parking spaces are accessed through common areas (e.g.
    staircase landing) as private car parking lots accessible via
    private strata area are included as GFA;

-   The car parking spaces are common property managed by the MCST and
    are not be strata-subdivided; and

-   The car parking spaces are used solely for car parking purposes and
    are annotated on plans as such.

## Gross Floor Area- Motorcycle Parking Lots

Motorcycle parking lots are excluded from GFA except when they are in
excess of LTA's mandatory requirements (upper bound^1^) for new erection
applications submitted on or after 1 February 2019 for the following new
development types:

-   Commercial, Mixed-use and Hotel developments;

-   Residential development within Central Area; and

-   Business Parks within 400m of MRT or LRT stations.

^1^ With effect from 1 February 2019, under the Range-based Parking
Provision Standards (RPPS), developments can provide any level of
parking provision within the specified range, defined by a lower bound
and an upper bound, without the need for additional approval from LTA.

## Gross Floor Area- Non-Car Parking Areas within a Car Park Floor

Non-car parking areas and all enclosed areas on car park floors, except
M&E rooms within basement car park floors, are included as GFA.

Examples of such areas include staircases, storage rooms, toilets and
corridors leading to non-car parking uses (e.g. shops on the car park
floor).

## Gross Floor Area- Pick-up/ Drop-off Points

Pick-up/drop-off points are excluded from GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Residual Areas on Car Park Floor

Residual areas incapable of accommodating an additional car park lot and
corridors leading to car park lifts are excluded from GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Catwalks

Unenclosed metal perforated catwalk meant for maintenance purposes and
not exceeding 1.0m in width are excluded from GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Communal Roof Terrace

Open to sky communal roof terraces managed by the MCST which serve to
provide landscaping and communal facilities for residents in the
development are excluded from GFA.

Covered or enclosed features within these communal roof terraces are
included as GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Covered Communal Ground Gardens

Covered Communal Ground Gardens (C2G2) are on-ground greenery spaces at
the 1^st^ storey. Such garden should flow seamlessly between the covered
and uncovered spaces of the 1^st^ storey and designed to be bright and
airy with quality landscaping. There are two types of C2G2:

-   Secondary C2G2

-   Predominant C2G2

All areas of the C2G2 shall be easily accessible to the public and/or
building users during normal opening hours for the development. The
communal ground garden shall not be enclosed and converted to any other
uses in the future. Covered ornamental pond/ reflective pool that forms
part of the communal landscape areas may also be considered as part of
the C2G2.

A landscape plan showing the proposed landscaping scheme and areas
within/beyond the 45-degree line shall be submitted as part of the
development application for assessment of the proposed C2G2.

## Gross Floor Area- Secondary Covered Communal Ground Garden

Secondary C2G2 are communal landscaped areas on the 1st storey which are
shaded by a structure or a floor or overhang above. These may be
excluded from GFA up to a maximum area defined by a 45-degree line taken
from the edge of the overhead projection. The communal landscaped areas
excluded from GFA within the 45-degree line must be unenclosed,
accessible and contain quality lush landscaping with a variety of
vegetation.


## Gross Floor Area- Predominant C2G2

For Predominant C2G2, the additional covered areas beyond the 45-degree
line may be considered for exclusion from GFA if the spaces provide
substantial ground greenery with good spatial quality.

For on-ground greenery to qualify as a Predominant C2G2, it shall comply
with the following requirements:

-   The covered garden area should occupy at least 50% of the 1^st^
    storey building footprint;

-   Within the covered garden area, a minimum of 60% shall be lushly
    landscaped while the remaining 40% shall be set aside for meaningful
    communal gathering and activity spaces and unenclosed communal
    facilities. These spaces may include garden paths, playgrounds and
    covered ornamental pools.

-   Covered drop-off points may be considered as part of the C2G2 if
    well-integrated, paved with appropriate material and integrated with
    lush landscaping;

-   Both the covered and uncovered landscaped area shall include
    suitable varieties of plants which are planted in permanent and
    preferably sunken planting beds to enhance the spatial and visual
    quality of the space.

-   As the communal landscaped areas are intended to serve the public
    and/or building users, they shall be easily accessible to the public
    and/or building users during normal opening hours for the
    development^1^. They should also not be tucked away in dark/obscure
    corners which will not be conducive for landscaping as well as
    public use.

While uses like ORA may be proposed within the C2G2, the ORA areas would
be included as GFA. Appropriate design interventions shall be adopted to
minimize easy conversion of areas excluded as GFA to usable commercial
spaces subsequently. The C2G2 should not be easily enclosed and
converted to any other uses in the future.

For example, the communal landscaped areas in a shopping mall shall be
open and accessible to the public during the mall's normal operating
hours.


## Gross Floor Area- Covered Enclosed Space

Covered enclosed spaces regardless of accessibility, use or height are
included as GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Covered Greenhouses / Farms

Covered greenhouse / farm spaces (including rooftop urban farms) shall
be computed as GFA. Netting over plants will not constitute covered
areas, and will not be computed as GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Covered Walkway and Linkages

1^st^ storey, upper levels and underground pedestrian linkages are
excluded from GFA if they satisfy the following specific requirements
applicable pedestrian linkages.

Communal sky bridges between buildings within a single development are
excluded from GFA if they comply with the following requirements:

-   The sky bridge shall connect two communal areas within the
    development;

-   The sky bridge shall form part of the communal circulation network
    within the development; and

-   No part of the sky bridge shall be rented out or form part of any
    strata unit.

## Gross Floor Area- Covered Linkways

Covered linkways are excluded from GFA if they comply with the following
requirements:

-   The covered link way shall be open sided and incorporated as part of
    a landscaping area; and

-   The covered linkway should connect one building to another and it
    shall not form part of the main building.

## Gross Floor Area- Covered Public Walkways

Covered public walkways are excluded from GFA if they comply with the
following requirements:

-   The covered walkway shall abut an existing/ proposed road at the
    1^st^ storey or face a public pedestrian mall, public open space/
    landscaped area or link two public areas;

-   The covered walkway shall be kept open at all times for public use
    as part of the public pedestrian network; and

-   The covered walkway shall adhere to the respective width
    requirements depending on its location:

## Gross Floor Area- Types of Covered Walkways

Walkways within 200m of MRT stations / major transport nodes & Central Area
Walkways between 200 --400m of MRT stations / major transport nodes
All other walkways

Places with high footfall (e.g. Central Areas, Regional Centres and Key Growth Areas) may have higher width requirements, as stipulated in urban design guidelines or otherwise stated.


## Gross Floor Area- Elevated Linkways Connecting to Pedestrian Overhead Bridges

Elevated linkways connecting to pedestrian overhead bridges are excluded
from GFA if they are at least 2.5m in width.

## Gross Floor Area- Jurong Gateway Elevated Pedestrian Network

Elevated pedestrian linkages within developments that are identified as
key connections under the Jurong Gateway Elevated Pedestrian Network
Plan (JGEPN) are excluded from GFA if they comply with the following
requirements:

-   The clear width of the walkways shall be a minimum of either 5.0m or
    6.0m, as shown in the  Elevated walkways exceeding the required width may be excluded from
    GFA depending on merits of the proposal;

-   Vertical circulation points that connect the Elevated Pedestrian
    Network (EPN) with the at-grade pedestrian network shall be provided
    along the EPN at locations shown in the  via stairs, lifts and/or escalators;

-   The walkway shall be open and accessible to the public during the
    opening hours of the MRT. Portions of the EPN that also function as
    public pedestrian overhead bridges (POB) across public roads shall
    always be accessible to the public;

-   The internal walkway route within the building that links the
    connection points with adjacent buildings shall be as direct as
    possible. A winding internal walkway route provided with the
    intention of maximising pedestrian flow to retail or other
    commercial uses for commercial considerations shall be deemed an
    internal corridor space and included as GFA;

-   The walkway shall be used strictly for pedestrian movements only.
    Commercial uses are not allowed within the walkway; and

-   Way-finding signages within the elevated walkway shall comply with
    the guidelines stated in the J-Walk Signage Guidelines. Generally,
    clear and prominently displayed signage shall be provided at the
    entrances of the elevated walkways within a development to inform
    pedestrians that they are accessible for public use. Adequate
    signage along the EPN shall be provided to guide pedestrians to the
    MRT Station and other key developments along the EPN.

## Gross Floor Area- Through-Block Links

Through-block pedestrian links are excluded from GFA if they comply with
the following requirements:

-   The pedestrian link shall run through a building block and connect
    two parcels of public areas (ie main road (excluding service road
    and back lane), public pedestrian promenade /mall and public open
    space/landscaped area);

-   The internal clear width of the pedestrian link shall be at least
    4.0m but no more than 7.0m;

-   Changes in the floor levels of the linkage shall be accommodated by
    ramps; and

-   The pedestrian link shall always be kept open for public use. Clear
    and prominent signages with minimum size of 4.0m^2^ shall be
    displayed above the entrances to inform the public that the linkage
    is open 24 hours for pedestrian use.


## Gross Floor Area- Underground Pedestrian Links to Rapid Transit Stations

Underground pedestrian links are excluded from GFA if they have a clear
pedestrian walkway width of:

-   Between 6.0 -- 7.0m for walkway without shops or with shops on only
    one side; or
-   Minimum width of 7.0m for walkway with double-loaded uses.

Walkways greater than 7.0m wide may be excluded from GFA depending on
the merits of the proposal.

## Gross Floor Area- Upper Level Pedestrian Linkways (Across Different Developments)

Upper level pedestrian links between different developments are excluded
from GFA if they comply with the following requirements:

-   The link shall connect two common public areas at upper floors and
    be used for circulation only;

-   The link shall span across a minor road. However, links that span
    across the development boundary may be considered;

-   The internal clear width of the link shall be at least 4.0m and up
    to 7.0m. If the connection is to a pedestrian overhead bridge, the
    minimum width shall be 2.5m; and

-   The link shall remain open during normal business operation hours
    for public use. The link shall be directly accessible via lifts or
    staircases from the 1st storey public lobby.

## Gross Floor Area- Covered Water Features

Covered ornamental pond/ reflective pool that forms part of the communal
landscape deck at the 1^st^ storey is excluded from GFA. Such area is
delineated by the 45-degree line taken from the edge of the floor or
overhang above the landscaped deck.

## Gross Floor Area- Curtain Wall and Wall Cladding Systems

For buildings with curtain walls or wall cladding systems fixed onto the
main structure, the GFA is measured up to the edge of the main
structural floor slab.

If there are external walls, the GFA is measured up to the thickness of
the external walls excluding the curtain wall or wall cladding system.

## Gross Floor Area- Entrance Canopy

For every development, only one entrance canopy is excluded from GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Floors

## Gross Floor Area- Floor Under a Pitch Roof

If the height of the roof measured from the springing line to the ridge
is equal to or greater than 1.5m, the floor under the roof is included
as GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Floor under a Raised Platform

If the height of the raised platform measured from the floor to the
underside of the raised platform is greater than 1.5m, the area under
such raised platform is included as GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Intermediate Floors

Intermediate load-bearing floors are included as GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Perforated Floors

Covered perforated floors are included as GFA regardless of the type of
material used for the floor.

## Gross Floor Area- Guardhouse and Sentry Posts

Guardhouse and sentry posts, regardless of size, are included as GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Household Shelters

Household shelters are included GFA.

Specific areas created as a result of a household shelter may be
excluded from GFA:

-   The part of the household shelter core that extends into the
    building foundation.

-   If the reinforced concrete (RC) slab is located at an intermediate
    level between floors.

-   If the reinforced concrete (RC) slab is located at the roof level.


## Gross Floor Area- Indoor Recreation Spaces

Indoor recreation spaces are included as GFA.

Under the Indoor Recreation Space Incentive Scheme (IRSIS), indoor
recreation spaces for private non-landed residential developments and
the residential component of mixed-use developments may be included as
bonus GFA if they adhere to the IRSIS guidelines and submission
requirements stated in the Development Control Handbook. Refer to the
link below for more information on the specific guidelines.


## Gross Floor Area- Residential Handbook
[Indoor Recreation Space Incentive Scheme](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Residential/Flats-Condominiums/Balconies-PES-PRT)


## Gross Floor Area- Air-Conditioner Ledges

Air-conditioner (A/C) ledges not exceeding 1.0m in width, as measured
perpendicularly from the external wall are excluded from GFA. For AC
ledges exceeding 1.0m in width, the entire ledge is included as GFA.


## Gross Floor Area- Firemen's Ledges

Firemen's ledges are excluded from GFA if they comply with the following
requirements:

-   Does not exceed 1.0m in width for non-residential developments and
    1.4m in width for residential developments;

-   No railing or parapet wall; and

-   Located at the external façade.

For firemen's ledge exceeding 1.0m in width for non-residential
developments and 1.4m in width for residential development, the
additional area is included as GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Reinforced Concrete Ledge for Sun Shading Purposes

Reinforced Concrete (RC) ledges meant for sun-shading purposes are
excluded from GFA if they comply with the following requirements:

-   Does not exceed 2.0m in width;

-   No railing or parapet wall; and

-   Located at the external façade.

For RC ledges exceeding 2.0m in width, the area to be excluded from GFA
is only up to 2.0m in width.

## Gross Floor Area- Letter Boxes

Letter boxes located within car park floors are excluded from GFA except
when they form an enclosed area. The enclosed area, including the letter
boxes will be included as GFA.


## Gross Floor Area- Lift Motor Room

Lift motor rooms with headroom exceeding 1.8m are included as GFA.


## Gross Floor Area- Lift Shaft

Lift shafts, including the thickness of the walls, are included as GFA
at the lowest floor.

## Gross Floor Area- Loading and Unloading Bays

Loading and unloading bays on the same level as a driveway are excluded
from GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Loading and Unloading Platforms

Raised loading and unloading platforms, which are not on the same level
as a driveway, are included as GFA.


## Gross Floor Area- Mechanical and Electrical Floor with Limited Headroom

M&E floors with headroom of up to 1.8m are excluded from GFA. The height
of the M&E floor is measured from the floor to the underside of the
upper floor. As suspended or false ceiling is not a floor per se, such
ceiling is not considered an upper floor.

For M&E floors with varying headroom (i.e. the height of the headroom
varies from below 1.8m to exceeding 1.8m), the entire floor is included
as GFA.


## Gross Floor Area- Mechanical and Electrical Rooms within Basement Car Park

M&E rooms (including bin centres and substations) within fully sunken
common basement carparks are excluded from GFA.

Under the Landscaping for Urban Spaces and High-Rises (LUSH) scheme,
activity-generating and sustainability-related uses are encouraged on
the rooftop of either new commercial and hotel developments or
commercial and hotel developments undergoing major additions and
alterations / re-development.

Activity-generating uses include F&B and sustainability-related uses
include urban farms^1^, communal roof gardens, greenery and solar
panels.

Rooftop M&E services may be transferred from the roof to

roof space adhere to the following requirements:

-   The urban farm area, solar panels and communal roof gardens shall
    take up a meaningful part of the roof. Any M&E services such as lift
    motor rooms or staircase cores that need to remain on the rooftop
    shall be clustered and neatly integrated with the roof design.
    Applicants shall consider the site context in deciding the most
    appropriate use for the rooftop.

-   URA will take into consideration whether the proposed use on the
    roof top would pose dis-amenity concerns to neighbouring
    developments (e.g. noise, glare). For example, F&B uses are not
    allowed on the rooftops of commercial and hotel developments that
    share common boundaries with residential developments.

Applicants are to take note of the following considerations:

-   F&B uses, whether covered or open-to-sky, are to be included as GFA.

-   For crop protection, covers over rooftop urban farms may be allowed.
    Such covered areas are included as GFA;

-   Covered spaces under solar panels used for landscaping purpose are
    excluded from GFA.

Note: Proposal for activity-generating and sustainability-related uses
on the roof and the associated GFA exclusion for the M&E services
transfer shall be considered based on the merits of the proposal and
subject to URA's evaluation at the development application stage.

^1^ Rooftop urban farms come in various forms, ranging from smaller
scale community-based farming activity and edible gardens, to
larger-scale, highly intensive farming activities conducted on a
commercial basis.


M&E spaces enclosed by chain-link fencing or low parapet wall on common
car park floors (e.g. above basements) are excluded from GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Metal Ceiling Grids within Indoor Performance Venue

Ceiling grids located directly above a stage area within an indoor
performance venue are excluded from GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Meter Compartments

Meter compartments incorporated inside gatepost are excluded from GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Open Courtyards and Air Wells

Open courtyards and air wells are recognised as existing GFA only for
developments that existed before or in 1960. For post-1960 developments,
the covering up of such areas are included as GFA.

From 2013 onwards, courtyards and air wells located within strata areas
are to be included as GFA whether they are open or covered, whereas open
courtyards and air wells located in the common areas, are excluded from
GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Outdoor Refreshment Areas

Outdoor refreshment areas (ORAs) are included as GFA.

Under the Landscaping for Urban Spaces and High-Rises (LUSH) scheme,
rooftop ORAs may be included as bonus GFA if they adhere to the LUSH
guidelines and submission requirements stated in the Development Control
Handbooks. Refer to the links below for more information on the specific
guidelines.

## Gross Floor Area- Non-Residential Handbooks
[LUSH Scheme (Commercial)](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Commercial/~/link.aspx?_id=CA13EA4D0A60457B8845D7CD1A60BFD0&_z=z)
[LUSH Scheme (Hotel)](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/~/link.aspx?_id=B5E7984A24A141379D1642844B912D3C&_z=z)

Under prevailing guidelines for Orchard Planning Area, ORAs located next
to the Orchard Pedestrian Mall belt may be included as bonus GFA if they
adhere to the guidelines and submission requirements stated in the
Orchard Planning Area Urban Design Guidelines and Plan. Refer to the
link below for more information on the guidelines.

## Gross Floor Area- Urban Design Guidelines
[Outdoor Refreshment Area within Orchard](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Urban-Design/-/media/8DE1AE58FC744E97B787E05D2237D3C4.ashx)

ORA located along Singapore River Promenade is computed as GFA. This ORA
shall be confined to the boundary of the subject development and defined
by markers, e.g. planters or flower pots. Only retractable awnings,
mounted on the development facades are allowed for the ORA to add more
interest and diversity to the streetscape.

The full frontage of the development along the promenade and pedestrian
mall can be considered for ORA uses, subject to detailed evaluation on
the maximum allowable extent based on the existing site conditions and
compliance with technical requirements. As the proposals sit on state
land, applicants will have to obtain the Temporary Occupational License
(TOL) from SLA or its appointed agent.


## Gross Floor Area- Urban Design Guidelines
[Outdoor Refreshment Area along Singapore](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Urban-Design/Singapore-River) River Promenade

ORAs within POPs are computed as commercial GFA.

ORAs within POPS may be included as bonus GFA if they adhere to the POPS
guidelines and submission requirements. Refer to the link below for more
information on the guidelines.

Outdoor refreshment kiosks (ORKs) are included as GFA.


Under prevailing guidelines for Orchard Planning Area, ORKs located next
to the Orchard Pedestrian Mall belt may be included as bonus GFA if they
adhere to the guidelines and submission requirements stated in the
Orchard Planning Area Urban Design Guidelines and Plan. Refer to the
link below for more information on the guidelines.


## Gross Floor Area- Urban Design Guidelines
[Outdoor Refreshment Kiosk within Orchard](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Urban-Design/-/media/8DE1AE58FC744E97B787E05D2237D3C4.ashx)

## Gross Floor Area- Pavilions

Communal pavilions accessed from common areas and sited within lushly
landscape areas at the 1^st^ storey and rooftop are excluded from GFA if
they the requirements found on the website.

## Gross Floor Area- Communal Planter Boxes

Communal planter boxes are excluded from GFA if they comply with the
following requirements:

-   Maximum width of 1.0m^1^;

-   Minimum depth of 500mm (for planting purposes);

-   To be sufficiently externalised;

Communal planters shall be designed with safety and maintainability
provisions in mind. Low height railings can be provided for safety
purposes.

Planter boxes provided behind full height screening and internalized
planter boxes are included as GFA.

For planter boxes that do not satisfy the abovementioned requirements,
the entire planter box is included as GFA. There is no partial
exclusion.


Communal planter boxes of more than 1.0m wide may be allowed if the
wider planter boxes are part of an overall scheme with design merit.

## Gross Floor Area- Private Planter Boxes

Private planter boxes located within strata units of both residential
and non-residential developments are included as GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Private Enclosed Spaces (PES)

Private enclosed spaces (PES) approved on or after 12^th^ January 2013
are included as GFA.


Under the Balcony Incentive Scheme (BIS), PES for non-landed residential
developments may be included as bonus GFA if they adhere to the BIS
guidelines and submission requirements stated in the Development Control
Handbooks. Refer to the links below for more information on the specific
guidelines.



## Gross Floor Area- Private Roof Terraces (PRT)

Private roof terraces (PRT) approved on or after 12^th^ January 2013 are
included as GFA.

Under the Balcony Incentive Scheme (BIS), PRT^1^ for non-landed
residential developments may be included as bonus GFA if they adhere to
the BIS guidelines and submission requirements stated in the Development
Control Handbooks. Refer to the links below for more information on the
specific guidelines.


Including private staircases leading directly to the PRT

## Gross Floor Area- Privately-Owned Public Spaces (POPS)

1^st^ storey covered public spaces may be excluded from GFA under the
Privately-Owned Public Spaces (POPS) scheme if they satisfy the urban
design, operational and eligibility requirements below.



## Gross Floor Area- Racking Systems for Storage Purposes

Racking systems are excluded from GFA if they are standalone modular
racking systems that do not form an integral component of the building
(e.g. not of reinforced concrete construction), and are used for storage
purposes^1^ in industrial developments.

^1^ The storage use should be related to the main industrial use of the
unit/development, and human access to the racking systems should be for
the storage and retrieval of goods only.

## Gross Floor Area- Recessed Windows

Area under a recessed window, regardless of height of the window, is
included as GFA.





## Gross Floor Area- Refuse Chambers and Refuse Chutes

Refuse chutes are excluded from GFA. 

Refuse chambers and Discharge Valve (DV) chambers (part of a pneumatic
system) located within fully sunken basement carparks are excluded from
GFA.

Outside of basement carparks, refuse chambers and DV chamber with
headroom of up to 1.8m are excluded from GFA.


## Gross Floor Area- Reinforced Concrete (RC) Slabs within Voids

Covered RC slabs within voids (including service riser voids and voids
beside storey shelter) are included as GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Roof Covers

Roof covers meant to screen off rooftop services may be excluded from
GFA if they comply with the following requirements:

-   The cover shall be non-load bearing and rest on the springing line
    or spring from the main roof; and

-   The covered area shall accommodate only M&E and other service
    equipment.

Besides pitched roofs and other non-load bearing roof, other enclosed
non-usable space at the ceiling level are excluded from GFA.


## Gross Floor Area- Roof Eaves located below the 6th Storey

For areas covered by roof eaves located below the 6^th^ storey, up to
2.0m of the area is excluded from GFA subject to the following
requirements:

-   The roof eaves and sun shading devices shall be column-free and
    shall not be accessible except for maintenance purpose only;

-   The roof eaves and sun shading devices, shall comply with the
    setback requirements from the common boundaries of the development;

-   Roof eaves and sun shading devices facing public roads may be
    allowed within the physical buffer and not within green buffer.


## Gross Floor Area- Roof Eaves located at and above the 6^th^ Storey

For area covered by the roof eaves located at the 6^th^ storey and
above, the entire area is excluded from GFA subject to the following
requirements:

-   The roof eaves and sun shading devices shall be column-free and
    shall not be accessible except for maintenance purpose only;

-   The roof eaves and sun shading devices, shall comply with the
    setback requirements from the common boundaries of the development;

-   Roof eaves and sun shading devices facing public roads may be
    allowed within the physical buffer and not within green buffer.


## Gross Floor Area- Building Projections located below the 6^th^ Storey

For areas covered by building projections (e.g. ledges, planter boxes,
bay window, balconies and design features) located below the 6^th^
storey, up to 2.0m of the shadowed area is excluded from GFA subject to
the following requirements:

-   The covered area must not fall within a walled-up enclosed space and
    balcony area;

-   The covered area must be column free and shall not be enclosed on
    the sides;



## Gross Floor Area- Building Projections located at and above the 6^th^ Storey

For areas covered by building projections (e.g. ledges, planter boxes,
bay window, balconies and design features) located at the 6^th^ storey
and above, the entire shadowed area is excluded from GFA subject to the
following requirements:

-   The covered area must not fall within a walled-up enclosed space and
    balcony area;

-   The covered area must be column free and shall not be enclosed on
    the sides;



## Gross Floor Area- Columns within 45-Degree Line

For scenarios where covered areas within the 45-degree line are excluded
from GFA (e.g. Communal Covered Ground Garden and Sky Terraces), the
area shadowed by columns are excluded from GFA.

If the column is excessively large (akin to a wall), the shadowed area
shall be included as GFA. The 45-dgree line for GFA exemption is not
applicable in such instance.

## Gross Floor Area- Elevated Linkways

Area shadowed by link bridges or elevated linkways (regardless of
height) is excluded from GFA.


## Gross Floor Area- Service Ducts

Service ducts, including the thickness of the walls, are included as GFA
once at the lowest floor, if the vertical shaft is entirely a void
space.

If the service ducts are slabbed over at every floor, the service duct
at each floor is included as GFA. Non- load bearing fire-stop material
to compartmentalise the service ducts are excluded from GFA.


## Gross Floor Area- Sky Terraces

Sky terraces are communal garden spaces provided at the intermediate
storeys of a building. The following requirements shall be complied with
for sky terraces to be excluded from GFA.

^1^ Parapet walls shall not exceed 1.3m in height to allow for more
openness.

^2^ The 45-degree GFA exemption area may be taken from all external
parapet walls (including recessed external parapet walls) surrounding
the sky terrace.

## Gross Floor Area- Landscape Plan for Sky Terraces

*Landscape Plan template (view high-res illustration
[here](https://cms.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Residential/Flats-Condominiums/-/media/BB7463BC571947D1A508FD6D2C69010A.ashx))*

## Gross Floor Area- Solar Panels

Area shadowed by solar panel is excluded from GFA unless the shadowed
area is enclosed, used for commercial uses (e.g. outdoor refreshment
area) or storage purpose.


## Gross Floor Area- Staircases

Staircases are included as GFA. The flight of the staircase is to be
projected upwards and be included as GFA on that particular floor.

## Gross Floor Area- Intermediate Staircase

Staircases at intermediate levels not connected to any floor are not
included as GFA.


## Gross Floor Area- Scissors Staircase

Scissors staircase comprises two separate sets of staircases intertwined
within a single stairwell, with each set of staircase having its own
flight of steps. Each set of set staircase is included as GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Staircase Connecting Virtual Floors

Staircase connecting between two floors with virtual levels in between
are included as GFA even if there is no access to the in-between the
virtual levels.

## Gross Floor Area- Uncovered External Perforated Staircase

All uncovered external perforated staircases, regardless of materials,
are included as GFA.

For pure industrial/warehouse developments, uncovered external mild
steel perforated staircases are excluded from GFA provided the
development already provides a covered internal staircase to serve users
of the building. If the width of the uncovered external mild steel
perforated staircase (including the staircase landing) is more than
1.0m, the developer shall provide an undertaking not to cover up the
external staircase subsequently.

## Gross Floor Area- Uncovered Staircase to ESS

Uncovered staircase to ESS are excluded from GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Structural Protrusion

Building features which are excluded from GFA can be allowed to extend
from the building wall line to serve different needs. These features are
typically short appendages and not extensive overhangs.

In situations where one building feature is added on to another, the
width of projection of these structures are measured from the building
wall line. If the proposed feature as measured from the wall line
exceeds the dimension prescribed for exclusion from GFA, it is to be
included as GFA as illustrated below.

The width of the projection of each item that is excluded from GFA
measured from the external building wall line cannot exceed the maximum
allowable width. Otherwise, the entire structure would be included as
GFA.

Communal planter box and Air-conditioner (AC) ledges not exceeding 1.0m
in width, as measured perpendicularly from the external wall are
excluded from GFA. If the combined width of the structural protrusion as
shown in Example 1 exceeds 1.0m in width, the entire structure would be
included as GFA.

Reinforced Concrete (RC) ledges not exceeding 2.0m in width, as measured
perpendicularly from the external wall are excluded from GFA. If the
combined width of the structural protrusion as shown in Example 2
exceeds 2.0m in width, the entire structure would be included as GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Swimming Pool

Covered swimming pool is included as GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Unenclosed Façade Articulation

Unenclosed façade articulation (previously known as Urban Verandahs) are
included as GFA.

Under prevailing guidelines, unenclosed façade articulation within
Orchard Planning Area may be included as bonus GFA if they adhere to the
guidelines and submission requirements stated in the Orchard Planning
Area Urban Design Guidelines and Plan. Refer to the link below for more
information on the guidelines.

## Gross Floor Area- Urban Design Guidelines
[Facade Articulation Guidelines (Orchard Planning Area)](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Urban-Design/-/media/53DF5223EB464D3D9CB2C77ACEB37E90.ashx)

## Gross Floor Area- Void Decks

Void decks are included as GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Walls and Columns

Walls and columns are included as GFA.

## Gross Floor Area- Water Tanks

Water tanks, including sprinkler tanks, balancing tanks and storm water
detention tanks, are excluded from GFA. Rooms that house water tanks are
included as GFA.
