# Hotel

## Advisory Notes

The guidelines set out in this handbook for the various development
control parameters will generally be applied by URA in the consideration
of a development application. However, if the circumstances of a case or
the planning considerations relevant to a case so warrant, URA may in
its discretion decide to depart from these general guidelines. Persons
intending to carry out a development are advised to take this into
consideration in the conduct of their affairs and check with URA through
enquiries or development applications to confirm if their proposals can
be allowed.

The guidelines, principles and illustrations found in the handbook
series are not exhaustive in covering all possible site conditions and
building designs. In evaluating the development applications, URA
reserves the right to evaluate and impose conditions not covered in the
handbook in respond to the specific design of the development proposal
depending on merits.

## Guidelines at a Glance: Hotel

The table below is intended to provide an overview of the key guidelines
applicable for the development type. The full details of the guidelines
are stated in the relevant tabs of this handbook.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



## Introduction

Hotel developments, regulated under the Hotels Licensing Act, are
primarily public accommodation facilities for commercial purpose. While
Hotels are predominantly used as accommodation, other limited supporting
commercial uses such as shops, restaurants and bars may be allowed.

Only the commercial use component within a hotel development may be
strata subdivided.

Backpackers' hostels, regulated under the Hotels Licensing Act, are also
public accommodation facilities for commercial purpose. They are open
concept dormitories for boarding and lodging purposes, with a minimum of
6 beds per room.
Refer [here](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Property/Business/Change-Use-of-Property-for-Business/Assessment-Criteria) for
the guidelines and requirements for conversion of an existing property
to a backpackers' hostel which may allowed on a temporary planning
permission.



## Location

Hotel developments are allowed on land zoned \"Hotel\" in the Master
Plan although some existing hotels approved some time ago may be
occupying land currently not zoned Hotel.

Hotel developments located on land zoned Hotel or land zoned for other
uses with a requirement to provide a minimum hotel quantum in the Master
Plan are not allowed to be converted to other uses.

Hotel developments and backpackers\' hostels may be considered on land
that are not zoned for Hotel use in the Master Plan. Such cases shall be
evaluated individually, taking into account the planning intention and
compatibility with the surrounding land uses.

Areas where new hotel developments and backpackers\' hostels are not
allowed can be
found [here](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/Circulars/2018/Jun/dc18-04/dc18-04-AppA.pdf?la=en) (PDF,
12.9 MB).



## Gross Plot Ratio

The allowable Gross Plot Ratio (GPR) of a hotel development is specified
in the Master Plan. The GPR is the upper bound as it may not always be
achievable because of site limitations like shape of the plot, site
topography or ground conditions, building setbacks, building height or
technical requirements of other authorities that may affect the site.

If the GPR is not specified in the Master Plan, the allowable GPR would
be determined taking into consideration the location, site context,
traffic and impact of the hotel development on the surroundings.

The area of the land required to be set aside for Drainage
Reserve^1^ (DR) and/or Road Reserve^2^ (RR) to be vested in the State
may be included in the site area to compute the gross floor area (GFA)
for a GPR -- see figure below.

^1^ ## Drainage Reserve (DR): An area safeguarded for purposes of
building or widening a public drain

^2^ ## Road Reserve: The plot of land to be vested in the State as
required under the Street Works Act. It is demarcated by the line of
Road Reserve in the Road Line Plan and the site boundary.

 
 
 

*GPR for sites where vesting is required*



## Bonus GFA Incentive Schemes

Hotel developments are eligible for bonus GFA if they satisfy the
requirements of the following incentive schemes:

## Balcony Incentive Scheme

The GFA of balconies in hotel developments may be computed over and
above the Master MP allowable GPR, subject to a cap of 10% inclusive of
planter boxes, if any. The additional GPR may only be used for balcony
GFA and shall not form the future development potential of the site upon
redevelopment. The additional balcony GFA may be subject to SLA levying
Land Betterment Charge, where applicable. When submitting development
proposals with balconies, the QP is required to demarcate the balcony
area clearly on the Calculation Plan and declare the total balcony area
that exceeds the MP allowable GPR.

Existing developments whose GPR have exceeded the Master Plan intensity
may qualify for the additional balcony GFA, subject to a cap of 10% of
the existing and approved GPR inclusive of planter boxes, if any. This
does not apply to existing developments whose building form, height or
use are not in accordance with the planning intention of the Master
Plan, Building Height Plan or Special and Detailed Control Plan.

Balcony designs shall adhere to the following guidelines and submission
requirements:

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

## Rooftop ORA on Landscaped Roofs

Refer to the section
on [Greenery](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/~/link.aspx?_id=B5E7984A24A141379D1642844B912D3C&_z=z).

Hotel developments may make use of any combination of the bonus GFA
incentive schemes (ie Balcony Incentive Scheme and Rooftop ORA on
Landscaped Roofs), as long as the cumulative bonus GFA does not exceed
the overall cap of 10% above the MP GPR.

The bonus GFA allowed under the bonus incentive schemes is over and
above the MP GPR and is subject to a maximum of 10% of the MP GPR. When
the site is redeveloped in future, the additional GFA already used under
the bonus GFA incentive schemes cannot be carried over. In other words,
the GPR for the site shall revert to the GPR specified in the prevailing
MP.

## Built Environment Transformation Scheme

The Built Environment (BE) Transformation GFA scheme aims to encourage
adoption of higher tier Construction Industry Transformation Map (ITM)
outcomes in areas of digitisation, productivity and sustainability. The
incentive scheme is jointly administered by BCA and URA. Applicants may
qualify for the scheme by adopting stipulated ITM outcomes as part of
the development proposal.

## Eligibility

The incentive is applicable for new erection or major Addition &
Alterations to private sites of at least 5000sqm GFA[^1]. Sites launched
under the Government Land Sales (GLS) programme prior to 31 March 2022
may also be eligible for the incentive scheme.

The types of developments eligible for the incentive scheme are as
follows:

  Residential[^2]    Condominium and Flats development
   
  Non- Residential   Commercial, Industrial and Institutional developments, such as office, retail, business parks, community building, hotel, hospital or white site developments
  Mixed use          Combination of the above

## Quantum of Bonus GFA Allowed

Private sites may be granted up to 3% bonus GFA under the scheme[^3].
The scheme is applicable for new proposals till 23 November 2026.

GLS sites are eligible up to 2% bonus GFA. The scheme is applicable for
new GLS launched prior to 31 March 2022.

The cumulative bonus GFA shall be kept within the overall budget of 10%
above the Master Plan Gross Plot Ratio (GPR), or the maximum allowable
GFA of the development. It shall not form the future development
potential of the site upon redevelopment.

The quantum of allowable bonus GFA under the BE Transformation Scheme is
based on the proposed uses, use quantum that complies with the Master
Plan zoning, and any additional requirements imposed as part of the
endorsement for the bonus GFA.

Should development proposals fall within areas with specific planning
considerations (e.g. storey height controls) or are unable to fully
accommodate the additional intensity due to on-site conditions (e.g.
areas with traffic concerns), the bonus GFA under the BE Transformation
Scheme that can be approved may be lower than the endorsed quantum,
and/or the bonus GFA may be limited to a particular use or uses.

## Submission Requirements

Applicants are to submit an application to BCA with supporting documents
on the proposed ITM outcome concept plan and detail the proposed ITM
outcome to be adopted for the development proposal. The submission can
be made at this [link](https://form.gov.sg/#!/610112199bdc0c00123abb25).

Following BCA's grant of letter of acceptance, applicants shall submit
the development proposal with the proposed quantum and use group of the
proposed bonus BE Transformation GFA to URA, for detailed assessment.
The development application shall be submitted within 6 months from
BCA's grant of Letter of Acceptance, and shall include a copy of the
Letter of Acceptance, and the [BE Transformation GFA computation
form](https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Residential/Flats-Condominiums/-/media/F51E44661B1449A49D9E68D665E65270.ashx).
The submission process and verification of ITM outcomes is summarised at
this
[link](https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Residential/Flats-Condominiums/-/media/4BB98E194AF3472EA42EA76CFD518D14.ashx).

## Requirements on ITM Outcomes for Bonus BE Transformation GFA

Applicants are to comply with BE ITM outcomes for the bonus scheme based
on the [building
type](https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Residential/Flats-Condominiums/-/media/6612FA46B09440BA983DA2A5BD47F8A7.ashx).
The specific requirements for the development proposal will be shared in
detail as part of the application process to BCA for the Letter of
Acceptance.

## ORA within Privately-Owned Public Spaces (POPS)

Refer to section on POPS.

## Building Setback from Boundary

 
 
 

*Building Setback for Hotel developments*

All buildings in hotel developments shall be sufficiently set back from
the road and common boundary. The setback distance is measured from the
road reserve^1^ line or boundary line to the external wall of the
buildings, excluding land to be vested to the State for road and/or
drainage purpose.

All buildings in hotel developments fronting a public road shall provide
a road buffer, the width of which depends on the hierarchy of the road.
A green buffer shall be set aside in the road buffer depending on the
width of the road buffer.

The buffer requirements for the Road Categories 1 to 5 are in the tables
below.

^1^ ## Road Reserve: The plot of land to be vested in the State as
required under the Street Works Act. It is demarcated by the line of
Road Reserve in the Road Line Plan and the site boundary.

## Road Buffer and Green Buffer

## Road Buffer and Green Buffer

   
  ## Road Category**   **Minimum Width of Buffer**   Road Buffer\
                                                    (inclusive of Green Buffer indicated in brackets)**
   
  Category 1          15m                           10m\
                                                    (5m)

  Category 2          7.5m                          4.5m\
                                                    (3m)

  Category 3          5m                            2m\
                                                    (3m)

  Category 4 - 5      5m                            2m\
                                                    (3m)
   

Hotel developments in the [Central
Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/1A7FB24BBE13419790D886BD6EDC0031.ashx) (PDF,
436 KB) are guided by the urban design requirements, which may allow the
development to abut the road reserve at the front.

Hotel developments outside the Central Area may abut the road reserve at
the front, if there is site constraint or if there is an intention to
retain the existing streetscape abutting the road reserve/road widening
line.

## Common Boundary Setback & Planting Strip

## Common Boundary Setback & Planting Strip

   
  ## Type of Boundary**                      **Minimum Width of Setback
   
  Common boundary with other developments   3m\
                                            (including 2m planting strip)

   

## Building Setback for Ancillary Structures

 
 

*Setback Requirements for Ancillary Structures*

Ancillary structures are minor structures erected to support the main
use of the site. The building setback distance and height control for
ancillary structures are shown in the table below.

Ancillary structures located within the green buffer may be assessed in
accordance with NPARKS\' guidelines --
see [here](https://www.nparks.gov.sg/partner-us/development-plan-submission/guidelines-on-greenery-provision-and-tree-conservation-for-developments).

Ancillary structures located within the physical buffer and building
setback that exceed the requirements in the table below, but are below
6m in height, shall be evaluated depending on the merits of the design
and function.

## Setback and Height Control for Ancillary Structures

   
  ## Type of Ancillary Structures**   **Required Setback from the Road**                                                                           **Required Setback from the Other Boundaries**   **Height Control
   
  Electrical Substation              5m from Category 1 road\                                                                                     2m                                               6m
                                     \                                                                                                                                                             
                                     3m from Category 2 -- 5 roads                                                                                                                                 

  Sunken Swimming Pool                                                                                                                                                                             Not applicable

  Raised Swimming Pool               Follow road buffer standards                                                                                                                                  

  Water Tank & Pump                                                                                                                                                                                

  Meter Compartment                  Subject to evaluation                                                                                        1.8m if located within the green buffer          

  Bin Point                                                                                                                                                                                        

  Guardhouse                                                                                                                                      2.6m if located within the green buffer          

  Generator Set                      Subject to evaluation\                                                                                                                                        
                                     Adequate setback may have to be provided to minimise glare and noise disturbance to adjoining developments                                                    

  Tennis Court                                                                                                                                                                                     
   

## Building Setback for Multi-Storey Car Parks

 
 
 

*Setback Requirements for Multi-Storey Car Parks*

The building setback for multi-storey car parks (MSCP) is detailed
below.

## Building Setback for MSCP

  ## Multi-Storey Car Parks**                                                                **Setback from Road**                              **Minimum Width of Setback from Common Boundaries
   
  MSCP façade with openings                                                                 Follow road buffer standards for hotel buildings   6m (including 2m planting strip)
  MSCP façade with no openings                                                                                                                 4.5m (including 2m planting strip)
  MSCP façade fronting open areas (ie open space, drainage reserve more than 6m in width)                                                      

## Setback for Building Appendages

## Setback for Building Appendages

  ## Building Feature**                             **Within Road Buffer**                                **Within Setback from Common Boundaries
   
  Roof Eaves                                       Allowed, provided it is not within the green buffer   Allowed, provided it is not within the 2.0m planting strip
  Sun-shading devices & RC ledges (cantilevered)                                                         

## Building Height

 
 
 

*Building Height*

The overall building height for hotel developments are determined by the
number of storeys and the prescribed floor-to-floor height.

## Number of Storeys

The number of storeys for hotel developments is guided by the [building
height plan](https://www.ura.gov.sg/maps/?service=BH).

If the storey height is not specified in the building height plan, the
number of storeys would be evaluated by taking into consideration the
location, site context, site topography, and impact of the hotel
development on the surroundings. Basement storeys that protrude more
than 1.0m above ground level on any side shall be counted as a storey.

## Floor-to-Floor Height & Aggregate Building Height

 
 
 

*Floor-to-floor height for Hotel developments*

The maximum floor-to-floor height for hotel developments is 5m,
including mezzanine floor.

Variations in floor-to-floor height are subject to evaluation depending
on the use and location of the floor. If permitted, the proposed
building height shall not exceed the maximum building height control
computed based on the permitted number of storeys.

## Overall Building Height Control

Unless otherwise stated, the overall building height^1^ of hotel
developments is subject to compliance with the technical height
controls of the relevant agencies such as Civil Aviation Authority of
Singapore (CAAS) and the Defence Science and Technology Agency (DSTA).
~~These agencies require the building height to be given in m
AMSL (metres above Mean Sea Level).~~

^1^ ~~Submissions to other agencies may require the building height
based on the Singapore Height Datum (SHD). The SHD may be a positive or
negative value and it may be supplemented with a \"+\" or \"-\" sign for
clarity.~~ Building height is based on Singapore Height Datum (SHD).

## Additional Height for Predominant Sky Terrace Storey

 
 
 

*Additional Height for Predominant Sky Terrace Storeys*

Predominant Sky Terrace Storeys (PSTS) are floors where the sky terrace
areas within the 45-degree line occupy at least 60% of the floor plate.

If the proposed number of storeys in the development is more than 7
storeys, hotel developments with PSTS may be allowed additional building
height depending on the number of storeys proposed as shown in the table
below:

## Additional Building Height based on Proposed Storey Height

  ## Proposed Storey Height of Development**   **Additional Building Height Allowed
   
  7 - 20                                      10.0m
  21 - 30                                     15.0m
  31 - 40                                     20.0m
  41 - 50                                     25.0m
  More than 50                                30.0m

The additional building height can only be distributed to the sky
terrace floors within the development. Spaces for M&E services located
directly beneath the sky terrace floor may be included in the additional
height.

The overall building height is subject to technical height controls.

The additional building height shall not apply to:

-   Developments within Conservation Areas and sites with National
    > Monuments;

-   Developments with height control of 6 storeys or less; or

-   Developments with special controls e.g. areas with street block
    > plans~~/security screening areas~~.



In addition to (a) -- (c), any additional building height will be
subject to evaluation for developments adjacent to conserved buildings
or in [urban design
areas](https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Urban-Design) with
site-specific height considerations.

## Basements

A basement storey refers to a storey of a building which may be
partially or wholly below the existing ground level. In so far as storey
height control is concerned, basement storeys that protrude more than
1.0m above ground level on any side shall be counted as a storey.

 
 
 

*Basement Setback and Vertical Openings*

The physical limit which the basement may be built up to is shown in the
table below.

## Basement Setback

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

^1^ ## Road Reserve: The plot of land to be vested in the State as
required under the Street Works Act. It is demarcated by the line of
Road Reserve in the Road Line Plan and the site boundary.

Basements with vertical openings on the side walls may be allowed only
if they are required for natural ventilation and to meet the building
regulations. The guidelines are as follows:

-   While the protrusion measured from the level at the site boundary
    > shall not exceed 1.0m, basements may be exposed up to 2.0m from
    > the point where the platform level meets the basement wall (ie the
    > earth around the basement wall may be cut to slope down to achieve
    > the 2.0m basement exposure with openings).

-   The extent of the slope within the green buffer or planting strip
    > shall have a gradient of 1:2.5.

-   Vertical cutting of the earth resulting in a trench around the
    > basement is not allowed.

-   The extent of the vertical openings or the types of cover over the
    > vertical openings shall be subject to the requirements of the
    > other technical departments.

-   Horizontal openings to the basement are allowed within the setback
    > distance outside the green buffer and planting strip, subject to
    > provision of effective screening to hide the view to the basement.

 
 

*Basement Horizontal Openings*



## Special and Detailed Control Plans

Special and Detailed Control Plans (SDCP) provide detailed guidelines
for specific areas. The SDCPs may be viewed here. ~~applicable to
commercial developments are shown below. Click on the following links to
view the control plans:~~

-   ~~[Conservation Areas and Monument
    > Plan](https://www.ura.gov.sg/maps2/?service=STB);~~

-   ~~[Envelop Control and Street Block
    > Plan](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Planning/Master-Plan/Control-Plans/Street-Block-and-Envelope-Control-Plans/list-of-street-block-envelope-control-plans);~~

-   ~~[Parks and Water Bodies
    > Plan](https://www.ura.gov.sg/maps2/?service=PWB).~~

## Special Control Areas

The following areas may be subject to security screening requirements.
URA will confirm this upon submission of a proposed development.

 
 

*Special Control Area 1*

 
 

*Special Control Area 2*

Qualified Persons (QPs) should consider the screening requirements in
the early stage of their planning and design to avoid abortive work
subsequently.

Where security screening is deemed necessary, it shall consist of
permanent fixtures that are difficult, if not impossible to remove. The
following screening measures may be considered:

## Visual Screening

Residential units and common areas may be screened where necessary with
blank walls, external concrete/metal fins, or the building may be
re-orientated such that the windows^1^/openings/balconies do not have
direct view towards the protected area.

^1^ ## Window: Raised openings that are at least 0.9m above the floor
slab. They are intended to provide ventilation and lighting, and not for
access. Full height windows and windows that are lower than 0.9m that
can potentially be used as access points will need to be highlighted in
the submission plans for URA's evaluation and approval.

## Roof Screening

The parapet wall at the rooftop shall be at least 3m high and access to
the rooftop from a public area shall be secured by a lockable
door/hatch. The door/hatch may be electronically linked to an alarm
system monitored by the building management.



## Street Block Plans

Street block plans guide the detailed setback, storey height and
building height, for the following locations. Click on the reference
links to view the detailed street block plan.

   
  ## Street Block
   
  [Balestier Road Between Thomson Road and Moulmein Road](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/Street-Block-Plans/Balestier%20Road%20Between%20Thomson%20Road%20and%20Moulmein%20Road.pdf?la=en)

  [Beach Road, Tan Quee Lan Street, North Bridge Road~~, Middle Road~~ And Seah Street](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Data/circulars/Archive/2008/dec/dc08-26)

  [Geylang Road, Sims Avenue, & Guillemard Road, bounded by Sims Way and Paya Lebar Road](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/Street-Block-Plans/GUDG.pdf)

  [Killiney Road No. 110 to 132 (Even Nos) and Devonshire Road No.6 to 20 (Even Nos)](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Circulars/dc16-09)

  [Mount Sophia Conservation Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Data/circulars/Archive/2015/dec/dc15-10)

  [Race Course Road / Birch Road / Serangoon Road / Chander Road\
  ](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Data/circulars/2016/Jun/dc16-02)

  [Upper Circular Road Conservation Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Data/circulars/2016/jan/dc16-01)
   



## Urban Design Requirements

Guidelines on Urban Design (UD) intentions are to preserve and enhance
the urban character of the different planning areas. They help to ensure
that developments integrate well with their surrounding urban
environment.

Developments in Central Area and Key Growth areas, such as Jurong
Gateway, Paya Lebar Central, Punggol Digital District and Woodlands
Central, may be guided by specific [urban design
requirements](https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Urban-Design),
where the planning intention is to introduce activity generating uses.
These urban design requirements shall take precedence over the standard
development control parameters.

Refer to [URA SPACE](http://www.ura.gov.sg/maps/) for the Urban Design
Guidelines Plan and designated AGU areas.

## Activity Generating Uses (AGUs)

AGUs help to activate and enliven streets; contributing to its vibrancy,
providing key basic amenities, and attracting visitor-ship to the
precincts. The following situations may require AGUs:

a.  Urban Design Areas shown in the Special and Detailed Control Plan
    (SDCP) Street Block and Urban Design Plan;

b.  Government Land Sale (GLS) sites where AGUs are required as part of
    the Technical Conditions of Tender;

c.  Sites that undergo redevelopment or major A&A works and where AGUs
    are required as part of the planning conditions issued for these
    works;

d.  Other areas as directed and specified by the Competent Authority.

AGUs may be required to be provided in the following typical locations:

a.  1^st^ storey of developments fronting key streets, pedestrian malls,
    through block links, and public spaces;

b.  Alongside underground pedestrian links (UPLs) at the basement levels
    of the developments;

c.  Alongside elevated pedestrian links (EPLs) at the 2nd storey of the
    developments.

The proposed AGUs in the above locations are to be assessed
contextually, taking into account the planning intention for the area
and potential amenity problems that will impact on the surrounding
developments. Uses not allowed are those that do not directly contribute
to street vibrancy and/or can potentially cause amenity problems to
neighbours.

[Example of uses that may be considered as Activity Generating Uses
 

-   Shop

-   Showroom/ galleries

-   Restaurant

-   Restaurant and Bar\* \[\*The restaurant shall operate throughout the
    day till reasonable mealtimes at night\]

-   Pet shop/pet grooming

-   Banks, adjoining or independent ATM clusters

-   Commercial school

-   Childcare centre/kindergarten

-   Gym/fitness centre

-   Visitor Centre/ museum

-   Hotel/ Backpackers' hostel

 

-   Office

-   Bar

-   Nightclub

-   Massage establishment

-   LAN gaming centre

## Developments Involving Waterbodies

To maintain the integrity and aesthetics of the waterfront areas so that
the public can have free and unrestricted access to enjoy these spaces,
developments at major waterbodies^1^ shall observe the design and
development application submission guidelines below.

^1^ Major waterbodies: rivers, canals of at least 17.5m width,
reservoirs, and seas.

 
rivers and canals with drainage reserve equal to or more than
 
 

 
rivers and canals with drainage reserve equal to or more than
 
 

*Developments at Major Waterbodies*

## Design Guidelines

1.  ## Retaining Walls

> Retaining walls along the waterbodies may be allowed subject to the
> following criteria:

a.  Retaining walls are less than 1.5m in height;

b.  Retaining walls are set back at least 300mm from the boundary;

c.  Retaining walls are covered with creepers.

 
 
```
2.  ## Boundary Walls/Fences

> For non-industrial developments, proposed boundary fences shall be
> porous (eg chained-link, metal-grille, or timber fence). 
>
> For industrial developments, the following may be allowed:

a.  Solid boundary walls not exceeding 1.8m in height. The walls shall
    > be aesthetically treated.

b.  Chain-linked fences not exceeding 1.8m in height with close planting
    > of shrubs/vegetation as screenings. A planting strip of 0.5m width
    > (minimum) shall be provided within the development.

 
 
```
3.  ## Slope

> There shall be no abrupt change in slope gradient at the boundary
> between the development and the waterbody. The slope gradient shall
> not exceed 1:2.

4.  ## Conservation of Vegetation

> Mature vegetation along the waterbodies are to be saved and conserved,
> wherever possible.

## Development Application Submission Guidelines

In all waterbodies-related development application submissions to URA,
the following shall be provided, where applicable:

-   Site/Location Plan showing the width and alignment of Drainage
    > Reserve^2^/Waterbody/Coastal Profile;

-   Layout plans and cross-sections showing the area between the site
    > and the Drainage Reserve/Waterbody/Coastal Area including existing
    > and proposed ground levels;

-   Design details of integration with waterbody including slope,
    > retaining wall, and boundary wall/fencing (Height, Type,
    > Screening);

-   Contour lines extending to 1m beyond the side of development
    > fronting the Drainage Reserve/Waterbody/Sea;

-   [Checklist](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/1A4AADDAB0B54182A8299F543A0F3C97.ashx) for
    > Waterbodies-related proposals.

^2^ ## Drainage Reserve (DR): An area safeguarded for purposes of
building or widening a public drain

## Application of Guidelines

The design guidelines listed above shall apply to all developments
adjacent to or with waterbodies except developments adjacent to or with
Drainage Reserves less than 17.5m.

All proposals involving waterbodies shall comply with the development
application submission guidelines listed above.

## Additional Guidelines for Use of Foreshore by Developments with a Frontage to the Sea

For land use planning and development control purposes, the
foreshore^3^ and the area within 15m on both the landward and seaward
side of the foreshore line^4^ shall be kept free of structures. Some
structures such as ramps may be permitted if they are constructed in
connection with an approved development (eg marine industries,
refineries, and pleasure-boat storage complex). These structures are
subject to planning evaluation depending on merits.

^3^ The area between the high water mark of the Spring Tide or the top
of the seawall and the low water mark of the Spring Tide.

 
 
 

 
 
 

^4^ The high water mark of the Spring Tide; the top of the existing
seawall or revertment or river wall (where appropriate) for controlling
landward development.

 
controlling landward
 
 



## Parking

LTA prescribes the parking provision standards and requirements for
motor vehicles and bicycles. The requirements are usually based on the
quantum of the gross floor area or the number of units of the
development uses. **LTA may require the provision of coach parking bays
in hotel developments.**

## Car and Motor-Cycle Parking

Under LTA's Range-based Parking Provision Standards (RPPS), developments
are subject to car and motor-cycle^1^ parking provision requirements.

Unless explicitly approved as private parking lots in the approved
plans, all car and motor-cycle parking lots shall be treated as common
property.

^1^ Motor-cycle parking provision is mandatory in all non-residential
developments.

## Range-based Parking Provision Standards (RPPS)

The RPPS allows developments to provide any level of car and motor-cycle
parking provision within a specified range, defined by a lower bound and
an upper bound -- see figure below. The range varies according to
location zones and land uses. Details may be found in [LTA's Code of
Practice for Vehicle Parking Provision in
Developments](https://www.lta.gov.sg/content/ltaweb/en/industry-matters/development-and-building-and-construction-and-utility-works/vehicle-parking.html).

 
 
 

*Range-based Parking Provision Standards*

## Provision of Surplus Parking in New Developments

New hotel and mixed use^2^ developments shall be subject to a process of
waiver evaluation by LTA, if one wishes to provide surplus car and
motor-cycle parking lots, ie parking provision above the upper bound
based on the new RPPS.

If LTA approves the waiver, each surplus car parking lot shall be
computed as 35sqm GFA, that being the average area of a car parking lot
inclusive of circulation space. Each surplus motor-cycle parking lot
shall be computed as 12sqm GFA.

Additional GFA arising from the surplus car and motor-cycle parking lots
may be subject to SLA levying Land Betterment Charge, where applicable.

^2^ Developments with commercial and/or hotel components that form more
than 20% of the total GFA

## Conversion of Surplus Car Parking in Existing Developments

Existing hotel developments **within the [Central
Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/~/link.aspx?_id=1A7FB24BBE13419790D886BD6EDC0031&_z=z) (PDF,
436 KB) or within 400m of MRT and LRT stations** may be allowed to
permanently convert their surplus car parking lots^3^ to other uses.

LTA may consider conversion of car parks up to the lower bound as
stipulated in the RPPS. Interested building owners are to arrange for a
pre-application consultation with LTA before submitting a development
application to URA.

The conversion of surplus car park may be allowed subject to compliance
with all of the following:

-   The proposed uses shall be in line with the Master Plan zoning for
    > the site and the planning intention for the surrounding area. The
    > detailed uses and any changes to the building form and design
    > shall be subject to evaluation by URA and the relevant agencies.

-   The existing infrastructure and traffic network shall be able to
    > support the increase in GFA and uses, and take into consideration
    > proposed measures to mitigate traffic generation.

-   The resultant car parking provision shall be able to support the
    > additional GFA and proposed uses.

-   Additional GFA arising from the conversion may be subject to SLA
    > levying Land Betterment Charge, where applicable. The additional
    > GFA arising from the conversion of surplus car parking, detailed
    > uses and any changes to the building form and design shall be
    > subject to evaluation by URA and the relevant agencies.

-   Requests for conversion of surplus car parks may not be supported
    > for sites where there are specific conditions imposed in planning
    > approval or the government land sale that restrict the conversion
    > of the surplus car parking spaces, or sites located within or
    > adjacent to Conservation Areas where additional car parking spaces
    > are needed to support the uses within the conserved buildings.

^3^ With the RPPS, surplus car parking lots in existing developments may
arise if the upper bound for the development type is revised downward
and/or if developments choose to reduce car parking provision to the
lower bound set out by the RPPS.

## Bicycle Parking

To promote a car-lite society, hotel and mixed use developments shall
provide bicycle parking facilities within the developments. Refer to
LTA's Code of Practice for Vehicle Parking Provision in
Developments [here](https://www.lta.gov.sg/content/ltaweb/en/industry-matters/development-and-building-and-construction-and-utility-works/vehicle-parking.html) for
the list of requirements.

Unless explicitly approved as private parking lots in the approved
plans, all bicycle parking lots shall be treated as common property.

Bicycle parking lots provided according to LTA's new standards are
exempted from GFA computation. Surplus provision of bicycle parking lots
may be exempted from GFA computation depending on merits and context of
the development.

   
  ## Loading Bay
   

We advise all building owners, developers and QPs to refer to the
Loading Bay Design and Operations Best Practice Guide (link to pdf
document) when developing new commercial buildings or when redeveloping
existing commercial buildings, especially for buildings with large
retail components.

This guide provides information, best practices and recommendations
regarding the design and operation of the loading bays within commercial
buildings, to achieve the following objectives:

•             Efficient loading/ unloading turnaround time

•             Improve traffic safety and goods flow

•             Adapt to changing delivery trends

In cases where it is difficult to adhere to the good practice for the
design and operation of the loading bays, we encourage buildings owners
to explore other means to achieve the same design and operation
principles.

The Best Practice Guide supplements the technical agencies' prevailing
Code of Practices, requirements or design standards, which should take
precedence.

As part of Enterprise Singapore's mandate to help retail buildings grow
through capability upgrading and business transformation, grant support
scheme is in place for building owners to adopt the use of dock
scheduling/ booking and queue management system to manage the loading
bays, subject to its approval. These grants are subject to reviews by
the overseeing agencies and may undergo changes without prior notice.
Applicants can write in to Enterprise Singapore ((provide link to email:
Jolene_NG\@enterprisesg.gov.sg) to enquire.

## Use Quantum

 
 
 

*Use Quantum for Hotel developments*

The use quantum controls for hotels are detailed in the table below.

## Quantum Control and Allowable Uses

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



## Provision of Open and Covered Public Walkways

All hotel developments shall provide covered walkways along the
periphery of the building facing roads and pedestrian routes.

Covered walkways for hotel developments in the Central Area may be
guided by urban design requirements. These urban design requirements
shall take precedence over the standard development control parameters.

The specific urban design requirements for each planning area within the
Central Area can be found on our [Urban
Design](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Urban-Design) Website.

## Height of Covered Walkways

The soffit height of covered walkways is 3.6m.

Where higher ceiling height is desired, glass or other cladding may be
provided at the edge of the covered walkway to achieve the 3.6m height.

A higher soffit height may be allowed in independent developments
provided the walkway width is increased correspondingly to maintain the
45-degree angle, at main entrances to facilitate articulation, and on
urban design grounds.

## Width of Covered Walkways

The minimum width for covered walkways varies depending on the location
of the site and proximity to transport nodes. These are subject to urban
design guidelines for selected locations with higher footfall eg Central
Area, Regional Centres and Key Growth Areas. For walkways wider than the
minimum requirement, GFA exemption may be considered depending on merits
of the proposal.

## Covered Walkway Width Requirements

  ## Types of Linkages**                                                        **Minimum Overall Width**   **Minimum Clear Width
   
  Walkways within Central Area or 200m of MRT stations/major transport nodes   3.6m                        3m
  Walkways between 200 -- 400m of MRT stations/major transport nodes           3m                          2.4m
  All other walkways                                                           2.4m                        2m

 
 
 

*Width of Covered Walkways*

## Location & Design of Covered Walkways

Covered walkways shall be provided at the periphery of the buildings
next to or facing public roads.

The walkways shall be continuous, providing connections into the
interior of the building, open space or open walkway. All ramps leading
into the interior of the building shall begin outside the covered
walkway.

Covered walkways shall be seamlessly connected to adjoining
developments. Covered linkways shall be provided between non-party
wall^1^ developments.

All level differences within the covered walkways shall be mitigated
with ramps and not steps. For covered linkways between developments,
steps are only allowed for steep gradient where ramping is not possible.
All ramps leading into the interior of the building shall begin outside
the covered walkway.

Covered walkways shall be kept free from all obstructions. All building
services and services which may cause obstruction when maintenance works
are being carried out shall be located within the building.

## Platform Level of Covered Walkways

The platform level of covered walkways shall match the platform level of
the open walkways.

-   **For open walkways that are at or to be raised to the Minimum
    > Platform Level^1^**

 
 

*Open Walkways at or to be raised to the Minimum Platform Level*

> The covered walkways shall be built to the minimum platform level or
> other level stipulated by PUB so that they match the existing or
> proposed platform level of the open walkways. \
> \
> Steps or ramps shall be provided to link to covered walkways in
> adjacent buildings which are not raised. The steps or ramps shall be
> levelled when the adjacent buildings are raised.

-   ## For open walkways that are below the Minimum Platform Level

 
 

*Open Walkways below the Minimum Platform Level*

> The covered walkways may be allowed below the minimum platform level
> or other level stipulated by PUB so that they match the existing
> platform level of the open walkways.\
> \
> The first storey of the building shall be raised to the minimum
> platform level, with provision of steps or ramps for access.

^1^ ## Minimum Platform Level (MPL): The minimum 1st storey level to be
provided within the site. The MPL is determined by the Public Utilities
Board (PUB).



## Retail Unit Size and Internal Corridor Width

## Retail Unit Size

The average retail unit size shall not be less than 50sqm. Average
retail unit size is determined using the following formula:

 
 

*Formula to calculate the average retail unit size*

The width requirements for internal corridor are dependent on the number
of commercial units it serves, and are detailed in the table below.

## Internal Corridor Width

   
  ## Type of Corridor**           **Main Corridor\                  **Other Corridor
                                 (with expected high footfall)**   
   
  Single Loaded\                 Minimum 2.4m                      Minimum 2.0m
  (single row of retail units)                                     

  Double Loaded\                 Minimum 3.0m                      Minimum 2.4m
  (retail units on both sides)                                     
   

A wider corridor width may be required for corridors with expected heavy
pedestrian traffic.



## RC Flat Roofs

RC flat roofs shall remain inaccessible except for maintenance purposes
only^1^. Activating the rooftop for uses such as roof terraces and
landscaped gardens may be allowed depending on the merits of the
proposal. No structures shall be allowed unless otherwise approved by
URA. Where allowed, structures (including any safety barriers) shall
comply with height controls^2^ and the following guidelines.

^1 ^RC flat roofs that are accessible via ladders for maintenance
purposes only are subject to agencies' requirements for safety barriers
to ensure the safety of maintenance personnel. Safety barriers shall not
exceed 1m in height.

^2^ Height controls applicable, include:

-   Absolute technical height constraints ^ (e.g. Aviation paths
    restrictions, military and telecommunications installations).

-   Conservation guidelines (available at [URA
    SPACE](https://www.ura.gov.sg/maps/?service=STB))

-   Urban design height controls (available at [URA
    SPACE](https://www.ura.gov.sg/maps/?service=STB))

 ^ The absolute technical height (Based on Singapore Height Datum
\[SHD\]) shall take precedence if it is stricter than any of the other
height controls.

## Communal Pavilions

Communal pavilions are small-scale, ancillary landscaping features that
function as sheltered, open-sided resting points. Access to communal
pavilions shall be from common areas only. The pavilions shall be
computed as GFA unless they meet the following criteria:

-   Maximum 50sqm^1^ or 50% of roof coverage, whichever is lower.

-   For developments which have reached the allowable storey height
    > control, the pavilions shall remain open-sided when viewed
    > externally. This is to ensure that the pavilions do not form an
    > additional storey.

-   For developments which have not reached the allowable storey height
    > or are not located within areas subject to storey height control,
    > maximum 50% perimeter enclosure of the rooftop pavilions may be
    > allowed.

-   Communal pavilions shall be integrated with lush greenery. The
    > greenery on the rooftop shall be both enjoyable by the building
    > users and visible from the surroundings.

-   Plants shall be incorporated on permanent and preferably sunken
    > planting, planned with sufficient soil depth based on the types of
    > plants proposed. Some space shall be set aside for the provision
    > of communal facilities and furniture to enhance the rooftop.

-   A Landscape Plan and relevant sections for ground/rooftop spaces
    > containing communal pavilions, showing the proposed landscaping
    > scheme, pavilion dimensions, planting palette, soil depth,
    > communal facilities, shall be submitted with the Development
    > Application.

^1^ The area is defined as the area of pavilion measured up to the roof
eaves line.

## Solar Panels

The installation of solar panels on RC flat roofs may be considered if
they meet the following criteria:

a.  Solar panels are installed between 10 to 15 degrees relative to the
    > horizontal plane to optimise the performance of solar panels and
    > minimise glare to the buildings in the vicinity; and

b.  The installation of solar panels shall not result in the removal of
    > any greenery approved under the Landscaping for Urban Spaces and
    > High-Rises (LUSH) Programme.

Installation of solar panels and M&E equipment such as inverters for the
solar panel system does not require planning permission except in
locations and contexts described below.

## Planning Permission

a.  **Areas subject to urban design guidelines and Conservation
    > Areas^2^ shall require planning permission due to their impact on
    > the roofscape. **

> ^2^ For Conservation Areas, installation of solar panels without any
> additional works are treated as localised works for the purpose of
> repair and maintenance and are considered Category 3 works for
> Conserved Buildings. Applications for such Category 3 works can be
> made by owners and contractors. Refer to the Conservation
> Guidelines [here](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/~/link.aspx?_id=6F28BA0B83114572ACA7DC1DFB84DBAC&_z=z) and
> information on submission
> procedure [here](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/~/link.aspx?_id=C2CDF8FDF76E401086C69F6F63B875B5&_z=z).

b.  **Elevated solar panels^3^ located in developments on the following
    > land use zones shall require planning permission:**

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

> ^3^ A solar panel is deemed to be elevated if it is raised more than
> 1m from the roof level for landed housing developments or 1.8m from
> the roof level for other developments.

c.  ## Spaces under solar panels are enclosed or put to commercial use 

> Planning permission shall be required if the spaces under elevated or
> non-elevated solar panels are enclosed or put to commercial uses such
> as Outdoor Refreshment Areas. In such instances, the spaces shall be
> computed as GFA.

## Assessment of Storey Height

Elevated solar panels that require planning permission may be assessed
as an additional storey for storey height control purposes unless they
comply with the guidelines below:

## Guidelines for Elevated Solar Panels

  ## Parameter**   **Guidelines
   
  Extent          Within the 45-degree line from the springing line of the roof level
  Height          Maximum 5m above roof level

 
 
 

> *Extent and Height of Elevated Solar Panels*



## Greenery

## Landscaping for Urban Spaces and High-Rises (LUSH)

LUSH is a comprehensive urban and skyrise greening programme comprising
both Landscape Replacement Areas (LRA) requirements and incentives to
provide greenery and communal spaces.

The LRA requirements are calibrated by location, GPR and development
type. A development may count Sky Terraces, Communal Planter Boxes and
Covered Communal Ground Gardens (see Greenery sub-tabs) amongst other
features, towards meeting the LRA requirement.

 
 
 
*Landscape Replacement Areas (View high-res
illustration [here](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/7903FD6591D648699A84200153F7765F.ashx))*

## Landscape Replacement Areas (LRA) Guidelines in Strategic Areas

Developments in identified ## Strategic Areas shall provide LRA that is
minimally equivalent to the development's gross site area, as shown in
the table and diagram below. At least 40% of the LRA requirement shall
be reserved for softscape (permanent planting) areas. The remaining LRA
requirement may be provided as hardscape.

The Green Plot Ratio (GnPR) provides an objective measure of the density
of greenery within a site. The formula for computing GnPR and the
minimum GnPR requirement is as follows:

 
 
 

The Total Leaf Area shall be computed based on the Leaf Area Index (LAI)
for each plant species, canopy area (for trees and palms) and the
quantity planted. The plant species sub-categories and LAI values may be
obtained online from NParks' [Flora Fauna
Web](http://florafaunaweb.nparks.gov.sg/) by searching the common or
scientific names of plants.

## LRA Requirements for Developments in Strategic Areas

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

*^1^Building height is based on Singapore Height Datum (SHD).*

The ## Strategic Areas are as follows:

-   Within Central Area: Downtown Core (part), Straits View (part),
    > Marina South, and Orchard (part) Planning Areas, as well as 2
    > mixed-use parcels along Orchard Boulevard in Paterson Hill Subzone
    > (see Plan 1-1);

-   Outside of Central Area: Regional Centres and Growth Areas including
    > the Jurong Lake District, Kallang Riverside, Woodlands Regional
    > Centre, Punggol Creative Cluster, Tampines Regional Centre and
    > Paya Lebar Central as well as commercial and
    > commercial/residential developments within Town Centres (see Plans
    > 1-2 to 1-26).

## List of Strategic Areas

  ## Plan**   **Location
   
  1-1        [Downtown Core (part), Straits View (part), Marina South, and Orchard (part) Planning Areas, as well as 2 mixed-use parcels along Orchard Boulevard in Paterson Hill Subzone](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/2523451BD66A47068D6B58D1F2366169.ashx)
  1-2        [Ang Mo Kio Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/06634A93B9EE4051A4A63D29EFF5F492.ashx)
  1-3        [Bedok Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/AD1120BE93E54061954BA70EF0088D3C.ashx)
  1-4        [Bishan Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/7A011FF4D75B44D58936C3CE705C35CD.ashx)
  1-5        [Boon Lay Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/2F78B03B426243C3BF18E3973C729427.ashx)
  1-6        [Bukit Batok Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/AC7D475CF0CB4E858F8D2E042532D01F.ashx)
  1-7        [Bukit Merah Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/D8264EA2FDDB414DB150BD0F67D69394.ashx)
  1-8        [Bukit Timah Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/67A9768F608E42C08B4D48EEE2A38A90.ashx)
  1-9        [Choa Chu Kang Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/667D94F2072D47E68DA8FCA0368C5E35.ashx)
  1-10       [Clementi Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/31C250BFFBB948FF8F635B208B507CC6.ashx)
  1-11       [Geylang Planning Area (Paya Lebar Central)](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/AEA4921C94334E98865001B81AFF875C.ashx)
  1-12       [Hougang Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/9C4E9001FEBE4FE19EB33D121574637C.ashx)
  1-13       [Jurong East Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/9FB9A103865C4109B76C25B258CA7E85.ashx)
  1-14       [Kallang Riverside](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/2523451BD66A47068D6B58D1F2366169.ashx)
  1-15       [Marine Parade Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/15D467A3489C4BCA97981DD6182477B1.ashx)
  1-16       [Novena Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/41DD75D33117405F9A11A3CE34F0B47A.ashx)
  1-17       [Pasir Ris Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/42C3D6D0243647EAB61C232A4770F788.ashx)
  1-18       [Punggol Planning Area (Punggol Creative Cluster & Learning Corridor)](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/4F40E0AFA53C4F32910AC0A79F1CD541.ashx)
  1-19       [Punggol Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/9BE629C4D780472ABFC8694F6D89AE65.ashx)
  1-20       [Sembawang Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/3660A4E3F02F4200974CAAAEAEF2441A.ashx)
  1-21       [Sengkang Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/3BC253B9FBB743118A83015C13B02DC9.ashx)
  1-22       [Serangoon Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/AE3F64913C8A41A48B979431676BB1DE.ashx)
  1-23       [Tampines Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/0743AB76F41A4E87B0A04A755010512E.ashx)
  1-24       [Toa Payoh Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/DA673FD129B446668EC692A2312AAF41.ashx)
  1-25       [Woodlands Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/6C7C6F8C4F624C6BBF84A462D8AD1C02.ashx)
  1-26       [Yishun Planning Area](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/6D12D4EE0E1841C3980836A4DFD50526.ashx)

 

The LRA requirement is not applicable to conserved buildings in historic
conservation areas. URA may exercise flexibility on LRA requirements
when evaluating individual developments affected by specific
constraints.

The table below shows the guidelines for computation of LRAs in
Strategic Areas. LRA in Strategic Areas is the sum of:

-   Horizontal surface area of the softscape eg permanent planting beds;

-   Horizontal surface area of the hardscape eg communal facilities,
    > urban farm; and

-   Vertical surface area of green walls and extensive green roofs (if
    > any).

## Guidelines for LRAs in Strategic Areas

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

## LRA Guidelines outside the Strategic Areas

Outside of the Strategic Areas, all sites zoned Commercial, Residential
with Commercial at 1st storey, Commercial and Residential, Hotel and
White shall be required to meet minimum greening standards, tiered
according to the development's GPR as shown in the table below.

## LRA Requirements for Developments Outside Strategic Areas

   
  ## LRA Requirements**          **GPR ≤ 1.4**   **1.4 \< GPR \< 2.8**   **GPR ≥ 2.8
   
  Overall Greenery Provision\   30              35                      40
  (as % of Site Area)                                                   

  Green Plot Ratio\             3               3.5                     4
  (Total Leaf Area/Site Area)                                           
   

The Green Plot Ratio provides an objective measure of the density of
greenery within a site. The formula for computing GnPR and the minimum
GnPR requirement is as follows:

 
 
 

The Total Leaf Area shall be computed based on the Leaf Area Index (LAI)
for each plant species, canopy area (for trees and palms) and the
quantity planted. The plant species sub-categories and LAI values may be
obtained online from NParks' [Flora Fauna
Web](http://florafaunaweb.nparks.gov.sg/) by searching the common or
scientific names of plants.

The general guidelines of LRA are shown in the table below. The
computation of the LRAs outside the Strategic Areas is the sum of:

-   Horizontal surface area of the softscape eg permanent planting beds;
    > and

-   Vertical surface area of green walls (if any).

## Guidelines for LRAs in Outside Strategic Areas

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

## Plan Presentation Requirements for Landscape Replacement Areas

A Landscape Plan for all Landscape Replacement Areas shall be submitted
together with the Development Application, as illustrated below.

 
 
 

*Landscape Plan template (view high-res
illustration [here](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/BB7463BC571947D1A508FD6D2C69010A.ashx))*

The plans shall include:

-   Relevant plans, cross sections and perspectives with layouts of the
    > softscape and hardscape areas. The softscape and hardscape areas
    > shall be visually differentiated on plans with the following
    > details:

    -   Computations of the overall LRA, softscape areas and Green Plot
        > Ratio;

    -   Proposed schedule and annotation of plant species and paving
        > materials;

    -   Where relevant, annotations of ancillary uses eg Swimming Pool,
        > BBQ Area, etc.;

    -   Where relevant, annotations of the 45-degree line;

    -   Short statement on the proposed maintenance and irrigation
        > methods for the planting.

Label and package the landscape plans and sections separately from the
rest of the floor plans, and separate the softscape and hardscape areas
into different layers.

URA's approval is required if there are changes to the softscape areas
(eg planting and structure of the planting beds) and hardscape areas
that result in an overall reduction in area for the required LRAs.

URA's approval is not required for changes to the planting species as
long as the softscape and Green Plot Ratio requirements are complied
with.

The following table for GnPR computation shall be filled in and
submitted together with the landscape plans.

## Green Plot Ratio Computation Template

  ## DECLARATION OF GREEN PLOT RATIO                                                                                                              
   
  ## Category**                          **Unit**   **Sub category**                   **LAI Value**   **Canopy Area/sqm**   **Qty/Planted Area**   **Leaf Area
                                                                                      ## (A)**         **(B)**               **(C)**                **(A) × (B) × (C)
  Trees                                 no         Open canopy                        2.5             60                    No                     
                                        no         Intermediate canopy                3.0             60                    No                     
                                        no         Dense canopy                       4.0             60                    No                     
                                        no         Intermediate columnar canopy       3.0             12                    No                      
   Trees                                sqm        Planted at ≤ 2.0m trunk to trunk   (as above)      NA                    sqm                     
  Palms                                 no         Solitary                           2.5             20                    No                      
                                        no         Cluster                            4.0             17                    No                      
  Palms                                 sqm        Solitary (trunk to trunk ≤ 2m)     2.5             NA                    sqm                     
  Shrubs                                sqm        Monocot                            3.5             NA                    sqm                     
                                        sqm        Dicot                              4.5             NA                    sqm                     
  Turf                                  sqm        Turf                               2.0             NA                    sqm                     
  Vertical Greenery                     sqm                                           2.0             NA                    sqm                     
  ## (X) Total Leaf Area (sqm)                                                                                                                    
  ## (Y) Site Area                                                                                                                                
  ## (X/Y) Green Plot Ratio                                                                                                                       

## LUSH Incentives

The following incentive schemes can be used throughout the development
to provide greenery and communal spaces.

## Sky Terraces

Sky terraces are communal garden spaces provided at the intermediate
storeys of a building.

To qualify for GFA exemption, sky terraces shall comply with the
criteria in the following table.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

*Typical Landscape Plan (view high-res
illustration [here](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/-/media/BB7463BC571947D1A508FD6D2C69010A.ashx))*

## Communal Planter Boxes

Communal planter boxes shall comply with the following criteria:

-   Maximum width of 1m;

-   Maximum depth of 500mm (for planting purpose);

-   To be sufficiently externalized.

Communal planter boxes which are more than 1.0m wide may be allowed if
the wider planter boxes are part of an overall scheme with design merit.

Details of the communal planter boxes, including planting palette, spot
sections showing soil depth, and dimensions shall be provided as part of
the storey plans.

Communal planter boxes shall be designed with safety and maintainability
provisions in mind.

## Covered Communal Ground Gardens

Covered Communal Ground Gardens (C2G2) are on-ground greenery spaces at
the 1^st^ storey. The garden should flow seamlessly between the covered
and uncovered spaces of the 1^st^ storey and designed to be bright and
airy with quality landscaping. There are two types of C2G2:

a.  Predominant C2G2s shall occupy at least 50% of the first storey
    > building footprint. Within the covered garden area, a minimum of
    > 60% shall be lushly landscaped, while the remaining 40% can be set
    > aside for meaningful communal gathering and activity spaces, and
    > unenclosed communal facilities. These spaces may include garden
    > paths, playgrounds, and covered pools. Covered drop-off points may
    > be considered as part of the C2G2 if well-integrated, paved with
    > appropriate material and integrated with lush landscaping.

b.  Secondary C2G2 are communal landscaped areas on the 1^st^ storey
    > which are shaded by a structure or a floor or overhang above.
    > These may be exempted from GFA computation up to a maximum area
    > defined by a 45-degree line taken from the edge of the overhead
    > projection. The GFA-exempted communal areas within the 45-degree
    > line shall contain quality lush landscaping with a variety of
    > vegetation.

All areas of C2G2 spaces shall be easily accessible to the public and/or
building users during normal opening hours for the development. The
communal ground garden shall not be easily enclosed and converted to any
other uses in the future.

For GFA exemption for C2G2, refer to the [GFA
handbook](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/~/link.aspx?_id=9E8E167B3680447CBAF72CDB36942D15&_z=z).
URA will assess the C2G2's design, spatial quality and overall
integration with the wider landscaping scheme in considering the
proposal's eligibility for GFA exemption.

A landscape plan shall be submitted as part of the Development
Application for the predominant covered ground garden proposal, showing
the proposed landscaping scheme.

## Communal Pavilions

Communal pavilions are small-scale, ancillary landscaping features that
function as sheltered, open-sided resting points. Access to the
pavilions shall be from the common areas only.

In addition to being sited within lushly landscaped areas, they shall
satisfy the criteria below to qualify for GFA exemption:

## Guidelines for Communal Pavilions

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

A Landscape Plan and relevant sections for ground/rooftop spaces
containing communal pavilions, showing the proposed landscaping scheme,
pavilion dimensions, planting palette, soil depth, communal facilities,
shall be submitted with the Development Application.

## Bonus GFA for Rooftop ORA on Landscaped Roofs

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



## Walking and Cycling Plan (WCP)

## Submission of WCP

Hotel developments with expected high pedestrian and cyclist traffic are
required to provide a WCP as part of the Development Application. As a
guide, development types listed in the table below are subject to WCP
requirement.

## Development Types that require WCP as part of TIA^1^

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Developments not listed in the table above may also be required to
submit a WCP if they fall under the following criteria:

-   Developments located in car-lite precincts^4^; or

-   Developments located within 400m of major transport nodes, ie within
    > Zone 2^5^; or

-   Retail, Office, Mixed Use developments.

Applicants of developments meeting the above criteria are strongly
encouraged to check in early with LTA for the requirement of a WCP. See
the diagram below for the submission flowchart to LTA and URA.

 
 
 

*Submission Workflow*

^1^ Developments that have a master developer, and consist of two or
more plots that staged at different time will also be required to submit
a WCP at the concept design stage.

^2^ LTA and URA will work with HDB on the WCP requirements.

^3^ Only industrial developments located within car-lite precincts or
400m of major transport nodes ie within Zone 2, will be required to
submit a WCP.

^4^ The five car-lite precincts are Bayshore, Jurong Lake District,
Kampong Bugis, Marina South and Woodlands North.

^5^ Zone 2 as defined in the Zonal Car Parking requirement in the Code
of Practice on Vehicle Parking Provision in Development proposals.
Please refer to [LTA\'s
website](https://www.lta.gov.sg/content/ltaweb/en/industry-matters/development-and-building-and-construction-and-utility-works/vehicle-parking.html) for
more details.

## Design of WCP

The WCP shall consider the safety, convenience, and accessibility of
pedestrians and cyclists, and incorporate the following elements in the
design of the development:

-   Provision of convenient and direct access from nearby public
    > transport facilities and adjacent developments;

-   Provision of measures to minimise conflicts between pedestrians,
    > cyclists and motor vehicles at locations such as the vehicular
    > ingress/egress, car park entrances, and drop-off points;

-   Provision of sufficient and conveniently located bicycle parking
    > spaces and supporting amenities such as shower facilities and
    > lockers;

-   Provision of way-finding signage to public transport facilities and
    > amenities for cyclists; and

-   Provision of barrier-free access and routes for children, elderly
    > and the mobility challenged groups.

The detailed guidelines on WCP and submission requirements are
summarised in LTA's Code of Practice ["Street Work Proposals Relating to
Development
Works"](https://www.lta.gov.sg/content/ltaweb/en/industry-matters/development-and-building-and-construction-and-utility-works/street-proposals.html).

To provide assistance on developing active mobility-related
infrastructure in a holistic manner, a Walking & Cycling Design Guide
has been produced as a supplement to the respective agencies' prevailing
COPs, engineering and development standards. The Guide can be
downloaded [here](https://www.lta.gov.sg/content/ltaweb/en/walk-cycle-ride/WCP.html).



## Underground Pedestrian Links (UPL) to Rapid Transit System (RTS) Stations

To improve the overall connectivity network, building owners/developers
are encouraged to construct direct subterranean connections from nearby
developments to existing and future RTS stations. The UPL shall form
part of the public circulation network, designed to be barrier-free, and
be directly accessible from common public areas during the operating
hours of the RTS.

## Use

Activity-generating uses such as shops and eating establishments shall
be incorporated along one or both sides of the UPL linking to the RTS
station.

## Opening Hours

The UPL shall be open during operating hours of the RTS station/normal
business operation hours for public use. Signage indicating opening
hours shall be provided at the entrances of the link.

## Size

-   The UPL shall provide a clear walkway width of:

    -   6 -- 7m for UPLs without shops or with single-loaded uses

 
 
 

*Width of underground pedestrian walkway with single-loaded uses*

-   7m for a UPLs with double-loaded uses

 
 
 

*Width of underground pedestrian walkway with double-loaded uses*

-   The UPL shall provide a clear minimum ceiling height of 4m.

-   The activity-generating uses may be allowed a maximum total depth of
    > 14m.

## GFA

-   Given its function as a public thoroughfare, the walkway of the UPL
    > may be exempted from GFA computation subject to the compliance
    > with the criteria above. For walkways more than 7m wide, GFA
    > exemption may be considered depending on the merits of the
    > proposal.

-   The activity-generating use shall be computed as GFA and may be
    > computed over and above the allowable GPR as stipulated in the
    > prevailing Master Plan or permissible GFA for the development.

-   The GFA for this additional commercial space is not transferrable
    > and shall not form the future development potential of the site
    > upon redevelopment.

-   Additional GFA from activity-generating use may be subject to SLA
    > levying Land Betterment Charge, where applicable.

## Submission Plans

-   Properly annotated plans and sections showing the proposed UPL in
    > relation to the adjoining developments and nearby RTS station
    > shall be submitted for evaluation by URA.

-   Since a UPL will occupy State land, the developer/owner shall obtain
    > SLA's endorsement for the submitted plans.



## Earthworks, Retaining Walls, and Boundary Walls

[## Earthworks](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/Earthworks#Table-3)

Earthworks are defined as any operations or works in, on, or over land
which result in substantial modification to the existing ground terrain,
land form, or slope. These include excavation, formation of a new slope
or embankment, and cut and fill operations.

Extensive earthworks are discouraged as it may change the existing
terrain. Earthworks may also result in the building of high retaining
walls that mar the streetscape and have adverse impacts on the
surrounding areas. Earthworks on any development site, where necessary,
shall be minimised.

Planning permission is required if earthworks involve more than 2,000sqm
of land or change in the level of the land of more than 1.5m anywhere in
the development site or relative to the neighbouring land.

The guidelines for earthworks are dependent on where the earthworks are
carried out.

 
 
 

*Location of Allowable Earthworks*

## Earthworks within the building setback area

Earthworks may not be allowed within the building setback area, except
in the following circumstances:

-   When the proposed earthworks are to match the existing platform
    > levels of the neighbouring sites;

-   When the sites are on undulating or sloping terrain, with large
    > differences in platform levels within the site, or between the
    > site and the road;

-   When the earthcut is necessary to build a fully submerged basement.
    > The area within the building setback shall be reinstated to the
    > original platform level upon the completion of the basement.

[\
](https://intranet.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/Earthworks#Buildable-Area)**Earthworks
within the build-able area (ie outside the building setback area)**

Earthworks within the build-able area of more than 1m are subject to
evaluation depending on merits. If the earthfill of more than 1m is
allowed, the earthfilled area shall not be counted as an additional
storey provided the overall aggregate building height complies with the
maximum allowable building height measured from the allowable platform
level.

## Earthworks within the entire development site

Earthfill involving the entire development site may only be considered
if the proposed earthworks are required to meet the technical
requirements of PUB. Such earthfill may be allowed up to the Minimum
Platform Level (MPL)^1^ stipulated by PUB.

^1^ ## Minimum Platform Level (MPL): The minimum 1^st^ storey level to
be provided within the site. The MPL is determined by the Public
Utilities Board (PUB).

## Retaining & Boundary Walls

 
 
 

*Allowable Height of Retaining and Boundary Walls*

The maximum allowable height for boundary walls is 1.8m.

High retaining walls shall be avoided wherever possible, particularly
for small in-fill plots. If they have to be built and can be allowed,
they shall meet the following requirements:

-   the height shall be less than 1.5m;

-   retaining walls higher than 1.5m may be considered due to site
    > constraints and the need for extensive excavation;

-   the total visible height of the solid boundary-cum-retaining wall
    > shall not exceed 2.8m, of which the solid boundary wall shall not
    > exceed 1.8m.

If the retaining walls are to meet the MPL requirement stipulated by PUB
for drainage purposes, the retaining walls along the site boundaries
(except along boundaries that abut foreshore, roads, or waterbodies with
drainage reserve equal to or more than 17.5m wide) need not be tiered as
these are transitory, pending the redevelopment of the neighbouring land
to the same MPL.

[^1]: Smaller developments of less than 5,000 sqm GFA may be considered
    on a case-by-case basis if agencies determine that sizeable
    productivity and sustainability outcomes relative to the development
    proposal can be achieved based on BE ITM measures proposed by the
    developers.

[^2]: The maximum allowable number of dwelling units for residential
    developments located outside of Central Area is derived from the
    Master Plan permissible intensity, which excludes any bonus GFA the
    site is eligible for.

[^3]: Applications submitted under the Strategic Development Incentive
    (SDI) and Central Business District (CBD) incentive schemes will
    have to comply with stipulated outcomes in the areas of
    digitalisation, productivity and sustainability. The required ITM
    outcomes will be separately assessed in relation to the context of
    the proposal, upon submission of the outline application for the
    SDI/CBDI development proposal. ITM outcomes will be imposed as
    conditions for planning approval for redevelopment proposals via the
    SDI/CBD Incentive scheme. SDI/CBDI proposals will not qualify for
    the additional GFA under the BE Transformation Gross Floor Area
    Incentive Scheme.
